So now let's go over the remaining user
stories,
so basically the first one would be.
Displaying and combining the T shipments,
basically TNA shipments basically what we
have discussed.
This would be the biggest user story of
them all.
It is uh and maybe we have to merge them
together.
In the ends, what we want to achieve.
We want to display only always only one
if possible and in the unplained state
and in the plan state we want to have
like automated exchange of stuff.
In der.
Simplest way possible like the very clear
clear statements,
displaying aggregated A&
T information across shipment,
two point transport order,
transport order levels for same transport
order connection.
Meaning we don't lose the information of
the T shipment,
basically what it was announced about
time and which.
Shipment it is linked to so basically now
we have 0 BSP for one A shipment and then
we want to say hey there were 20
announced.
And then last but not least,
last but not least.
Display or basically make make it visible
for the dispatcher to see conflicting
shipments.
And have one solution. The solution was.
For one conflict case,
basically you have several T shipments
and one A shipment,
they are all planned to different
transpilotes and you can decide where you
pull it and then it is simply exchanging.
Should we?
Mean,
our job resumation to just the model is,
I mean, it subs to them to result right.
Yes,
the one thing what we're going to be
doing is this one resolving step.
And how do it like?
Federal T shipments on several transport
orders.
maybe
I have.
Splained it in the PBI.
So question for me up to that, yeah.
So.
What we want to have is if an A shipment
is still unplanned,
it can be resolved so and we have this
problem that we have multiple T shipments
and we don't know to which transport
ordered it should be long. Oh yeah, sorry.
When you read it now.
Yeah,
so and we don't know to which transport
or it belongs and now we'd just have to
find out OK to which,
but we don't know basically what they
want as UX.
This shipment is orange marked.
So the A shipment is orange lee marked in
the unplant state.
But its T shipments are plant.
So it's reference and we have a conflict
so we market orange or right.
When you click some button on the
shipment and then it acts like a filter.
And only shows the transfer order.
The transport orders which are connected.
How was you?
We don't we have the case this complex
appears on if both of the legs are plant,
right? Yeah,
but what do you aren't rent but obvious?
But how are you going to see those?
I mean, you don't see the shipment.
You see legs or the templant.
We don't see the leg if it's plant.
For example,
that the A the A shipment is unplanned
that T lack planned to a transport order
and therefore you can resolve the
transport orders that are related to the
A black that is unplanned because the two
lacks are related to Chub.
So A comes in and we see all right,
it's 2. Let's say 2 T shipments.
OK are assigned to each different
transport order.
And now what happens if I click on this
unplant A shipment on the left hand side
maybe we just.
Oh, test and just make it.
Peugeot
So let's say we have just.
And now we're filtering for true
transport orders. That's just.
OK. So.
Yeah.
These could all be T shitments now,
so basically this is red,
not red but orange.
You click on it and then this should
appear so this has nothing to do with
this with this shipment,
but on all of these other advancement
allows right now.
There is a t shipment planned on it.
So this basically would be what we want
to see maybe make it even better when
it's even less.
I one hundred.
E.
So we would be clicking on it and now we
see OK, this transport order,
this transport order,
this transport order and this transport
order.
Basically linked to this transport order,
not transport order shipment on lack.
And now we can decide what we're going to
be doing and the UX is we drag and drop
it on the one we want to exchange it with.
What happens actually with Jana to from
the free this day.
But you stay assigned OK and this is the
only manual resolution of this problem we
will be providing.
So how do you ratistay assign? I mean,
basically assign.
Please don't question the logic.
That's their logic and this is what they
wanted.
It's they have some reasons for it.
I think that is something our matrix with
edgagedge cases with.
Give Mountain Side to Understanding, ja.
I would try to get as much information
and we'll write down the question.
Why we want to help this?
If you have like this thing located in 3
gittern terms type to result to one of
them.
The only reason I see for living this is
potentially other shipments come around
then want to reserve it within at peace,
for example.
It's the only reason I see for a keeping
those signs.
If they are like a scientist different
transports,
I want to keep your two sign for example.
For example,
for UA comes and you want to reserve
which you can different transport.
But like you're strange.
Why does the?
OK,
but basically like I said one option
which will be presenting to them.
You can resolve this one issue or this
one conflict and the other easy cases we
will automatically do and the rest will
be just visualized and then they can ask
their support to resolve that issue.
All right,
this was more than five minutes.
One question I had yes in terms of
displaying the the information that
you're on the dopic about the VSPs and
the rest of the stuff.
So let's say an assheepment has links to
multiple.
T sheetments and these T sheetments get
assigned by some Alaray sheetment and you
know these these red box where we say
that they are like no longer going to be
planned.
How these reflects are showing the GSPs?
After this dishipment is plank.
For this,
I I think just the handling of the
information which we're gonna be showing,
we need some more refinement and question
probably this will need some more
interration because that is up in the
cases where.
This is removed,
this is not removed and to take care of
this on our side,
but for now I would just.
Take care of that we have this
information and then implement the logic
when to show what value.
I mean,
this would be a use a story by itself.
So it's not clear.
The general approach would be the
aggregated values,
but meaning this has nothing to do with
all the H cases. Yeah,
I'm not the aggregated,
but in the case with this shouldn't.
Not show these value.
I will distinct for this dishipment
anymore.
For this t shipment.
You always show it on the ashipment.
Never on the T. Yes,
but one T shipment beling to two let's
say A shipments. Yes,
and one of these two A shipments gets
assign.
Yeah,
so basically replacing the so this t
shipment we said that it's no longer
planable.
Yeah, so on the other asshipment,
I will still show in the value for this
shipment, which is now no longer planable.
Sommer.
Is the question? Yeah,
like I said a lot of H cases and I think
this is where we have to write down all
the H cases we have to think of and ask
what do you want to see here?
And this is any we we remove the
references at that point.
I forget want to remove.
We cause it's important property and
applices between the A and the other
ration and things that might also want to
important which resolves I don't receipt
That 14 gains with this. OK,
should we move on? Yes, timewise.
Literally have two and a half hours, yeah.
And so you good more, good more.
So next one would be just from user
perspective, I want to see updates on the.
Before you start.
Ivailo has reported that he has time
between three and four.
Four after 1730 think this should be
sufficient if we start with this now
should should be manageable in 40 minutes.
Du, ja.
And let's start.
So basically what we want to have is just
an event counter on the.
And events counter on.
On the lots.
And basically lots and shipments area and
the counter for the transport orders.
Meaning every every event we.
Register as a change will be increasing
this number by one.
This is the user story and what we want
to have, this should be.
Update every once in a while in a defined
method could be 5 minute, 5 seconds,
10 seconds that just this one part of the
screen will be updated.
And if we click this button,
it does right now,
it's reset to not having a batch.
Yes,
do we keep like those changes should they
be hopeful of home data set a regardless
where is visible a lot for just for the
visible current pilotic part?
Jumps a filtress right. Vagination.
That's a vagination. I mean, essential.
So basically what is loaded in right
because if you have Pagination,
you load multi can have multiple pages.
Load it, right? I mean, yeah,
but you might have one load just one load
as a yep, all two. Oh, yeah,
we crepents really has broad.
And currently we do have projunation vote
on the lots and the lacks and also on the
trafford. What is easier?
Not having.
Always saying for the for the general,
all lots or legs have changed.
By this amount.
And the same applies for the transport
orders.
I I think the answer is more from a user
side right.
The user wants to see what has changed
given the the applied filters doesn't
matter if it's on Page 12305.
If there is one item more,
I want to have that indicator.
That's also what I never.
It could be the case that something which
initiated you not met the filter and so
ready meets the filter conditions,
for example.
Right.
So was this ever race this question to
Patrick or is this food then we need to
ask When we reface,
do we receipt the Pagination?
When we refresh, we do exactly.
What we're doing right now?
That's what we're think is just we drug
which page there on then we just load the
exact same page.
So basically we're doing this.
And then it is I'm not sure what is
happening about it and if you have scroll
down and you can.
And then refresh so 4731.
You selected it? No, when you selected it,
if it selected then we do.
Do you you persist?
This was the idea I'm not sure exactly
but behavior because of course something
about it. It should load the. Of 786, no,
no, it does not. OK. So it will get about.
We have two a separation into two topics,
I think you'll go to the mirror.
But what I mean is with that behavior in
the case that Martin said let,
even if we have a new record when we
refresh,
we might like not end up seen that record,
not necessarily we're competitive because
it's somewhere down late in the list.
Yeah, that's fine, I think.
So I think it's two topics.
One is exactly the logic of what we want
to see in the question of.
Is it within the filters or outside?
The other one is a technical one.
Do we how do we make this batch appear?
Is it a pull?
From the frontend or whatever,
all do we introduce push mechanisms from
back end to frontend?
Isst du must be discust a brilli?
And the discussion why now was in the
topic number one?
That's something we need to.
Also probably topic look that I can
really on.
For the lect lock structuring we can
implement like probably updated on.
View to which reflects when the lack or
mottos means most like the legs were
gated.
But the question is come in a life,
for example,
for transport total from TMS subjeded on
date.
So.
Because starting the team was should have
like a backstone one things,
he was lost updated.
And do you can simple track transport
orders which have been a dated fast some.
That stop could you say?
For example,
give me all the transporter to the bail
adapter today at 227.
Yeah, that's when you do the pool,
the back end would execute this query
therefore you need fields in the portion
basically last increasing the counter.
But the same question is how do you?
Increase the counter,
but you would pull us. Well,
we make a request to get all that is
changed after the user's last refresh on.
If you all you work if we track changes
corresponding to the current users view,
we cannot track into the changes because
we have the performance issue.
You cannot say give me all the records in
the transport order table because we have
performance issues but what if we truck
only to update it update it should be a
starting date.
We truck transport order idea.
We don't execute the date. Yeah,
we just truck which is not.
We have a select count.
On the create change date feels,
select counties different than selecting
the date atom com like I mature with the
performance you don't need a single com.
This view let Max just showed has a date.
Attached rate in a time right when the
user refresh the page debts,
the cut of date for that we need a time
including milliseconds.
I don't care how deep and with that we
built the select count where changed at.
Is bigger than this times then.
It's for the current user view can just
get all the IDs of the records that are
traveling in the user's view and request
the information for them whether the data
ton is changed to and compare the ones
that we already retreat.
To do after you just.
It is like that now to as I remoise and
compare correct,
but it's close to work for the holding to
63 like if we hear with you,
just transport all that idea to date it
on the it.
Naturally with the performance that those
you must study filled.
Yeah,
we see use the security of views and
given that the views you know the the
functions that I think still execute.
I mean, we need to check.
So but I think it's rather.
Simple tasks compared to TT lex et cetera.
Everything is easy now.
And the question do we use web socket to
push from back into front and on the
other way around with the pool?
I think it count what is simpler too.
I think it should be full because it
should be,
it should be user specific like the
changes between the different users of
the applications will be different.
Right based on the on the user review so
you cannot.
If you have a puls mechanism,
this means that you need to track the
state for each user,
but if you have pull mechanism,
you are able from the user context you to
see what the loaded area into request the
information for that, yeah.
Dennis
Sorry, just to question.
Do we save somewhere at what time I?
Last to frace the page.
It's automatic let's say every five
seconds in the background will be
checking in there any updates. OK,
there's no button or of anything like
that it will be background process. OK.
I think she's asking more up the date to
one minute last repressions. Yeah,
some kinds about times time for what I
mean because if I walked in to 31 and
after that,
do we check as you said every five
seconds? I say my first.
Like text interval. Yeah,
but like also you need to know the date
very last represhed because like those of
date events would some pretty much in the
in the counter right.
You don't need every time you can check
for the for the for this update and don't
clear to the.
Set you already have olded.
Isn't it like way more complex operation
this simply storing a timestorm but just
comparing in other timestorm?
But even if you compare you're stilling
to check out the five seconds. Yeah,
that's two things. One is the interval.
It's a voice fine. I mean,
a far we like like.
The counter, yeah,
you would be easily to compare with a
timestamp just to secure to check where
the timestamp is tiggering the one to
have last request which recall for this
case the timestamp is the actual IDs if
you're providing the IDs that's your
timestamp.
Because on the last refresh,
if you had any changes,
you old at them and you have the new IDs
on the plet say here on the page we see
10 legs, 20 transport orders,
your view and whatever.
You get the IDs for these. OK,
you get the information from TMS.
You compared the updated on dates.
Can you update the records or just show
the counter whatever? OK,
but you about it very much more word than
just looking at the transport orders
which have changed from this time save on
just saving.
I want to only see the changes of any
transport order.
Since you last since this stand them,
but again,
depends whether whether there will be
performance implication. But I mean, OK,
but I would probably include that
limitation that we use the filter view,
which is passed.
Yeah, not the full one,
and we need to define what is counted as
a change. Yeah,
also basically the user request because
in the business states that you doesn't
want if you want to see the changes only
in the view that being shown to him.
But this is like very,
very we going deeper now what is exactly
how we gonna be implementing it,
what are the restrictions and when is the
count plus one,
when is the count plus two could be that
a change to transport order could be
increased by two because two fields
changed, but let's.
Ignore this, yeah, detail.
He would like provider this we don't hear
reform assessure. Like the one different,
where we want to do the loaded range or
the four range with just additional
future, right,
in particular IDs that you would check
for.
You would still become tary timestamps.
It will regeneration of future by IDs
just they just truck with the changes for
those stamps from top of those.
It's not in more reunction of future,
so we should be able to like to.
Interior these if there is no performance
issues, which should be able to.
Take a boat viations.
And I mean,
this go is going right now into the
technical implementation how we're gonna
actually do this and we have an idea.
We have this pull mechanism and how we
pull.
With a timestamp or an interval from a
filter view or like it tabled directly,
these are in my opinion implementation
details unless we know OK we want to have
a pole mechanism, right?
For sure, I mean, you describe why. Again,
brainstorming like we need to a visit and
there,
the priority detail that we are missing
right now or some assumptions to.
I'm suiting for you to check whether if
we saved.
Time the times time,
the times time as well because some of
the data tools in the database are a date
time without times time. So yeah,
I think these should be checked as well.
Is on this actually better? Well,
have been changed it.
Well,
how can you check weather if for example,
you all the page and then as five means
letters someone updates we transport
order how can you know whether it's as
updated?
I think it's the you underscot date, yeah,
something like that.
OK.
But this must rejective the but it's
smasser gains probably just a dill, yeah.
Yeah, mean,
this situation probably makes that you
thank so. So sorry,
let tracking changes over all fields or
specific set of fields.
This would be the question what is
consider the change? Oh, if it,
if it's like a particular field, then.
Probably.
But I mean basically.
For me, some things are very clear.
There's a new shipment.
A shipment has been deleted.
It just focusing now on shipments.
This hour of sturch.
We can like each change there.
We can make a few to which trucks the
last of data dating and triflect exactly
that you want.
But like the question is more for the
transport problem because we always
always treat transport problems on TMS.
So it's important to know where are all
few some of the transport problems with
TU Truck because this is like what is
outside of all I can show.
This do. Yeah,
but here would just distume wherever
change to the change.
And if they want to have it more grainial
or basically decide what out the changes,
they need to decide,
but our assumption is.
Whatever change we track on a transport
order is consider the change.
Because sorry, wise it like more complex.
And I mean basically this number is just
helping the the this patcher to
understand, hey,
my data might be out of sync or is out of
sync and not fly how much and I have.
10 deleted shipments, 3 new coming in.
This could be maybe future future
features,
but right now we're only interested. OK,
we got changes and we lay need to see the
only.
Refresh.
Let's let's say I can see the counter I
have 13 changes and up to refresh the
counter is again 0, right? Yeah,
should not appear it home.
So should be disappeared. OK,
so we should have us times time again
then.
For for my last refresh, maybe I mean,
yeah,
I mean we could stories probably more
cost or something that last problem.
We can.
So it somewhere on the quantum because
this would be like session specific right.
Regardless from which browsery opened is
it would be like the last time.
If refreshed in each time we can read.
Three day doesn't require that it.
Basically regardless for the future,
embration,
do we even needed and local storage?
What is the other wishing is do you? Oh,
sorry.
And transport tourless we're stopped in
the sending table. Right? Yes,
we are already actually tracking changes
conscial table through CSD.
Is it possible to, for example,
have additional filtering the part
function to send a message to the popstop
and popstop, for example,
sends a message to the disposition back
and says, hey,
there's a change on the transport order
you don't care what it is.
Just increase the count on the front time.
Is this survival solution?
Again,
this the the perspective from what is
subdated,
it's it's based on the user and the
session and like I think if we stored you
somewhere we need to track also.
The changes for user context.
One argument for this is.
For example,
if you create a transmit order.
Would tell you one more,
but I don't want to see my own changes as
a change and then I updated like
basically just make the easiest case.
You have created the only transport order
you see and it's telling you hey one
change, one new yeah and you like.
Yeah, I know because it did it. Yeah,
so you always had like a change and you
would basically not want to have changes
or interactions the same with the lots.
So basically if you move a leg into a new
lot, you do want to have this.
As a change on the lext, yeah, yeah,
also changes are not always coming from
the outside,
sometimes they are coming from the new
display itself from some other either
changes the transporter.
So we do not go through the CVCA. Yeah,
and it depends a bit on if we only focus
on the filtered.
Stead of data or everything because.
When you filter to what he has filtered
or she, yeah, but not every changing on.
The big thing is we need to make a clear
this differentiation between lacks and
lots.
And transport orders because transport
orders have this filter,
this general filter of I want to see five
days,
and this needs to be respected in my
opinion. Yeah, yeah,
because I don't care for changes of
something what I'm not even looking at
like in the the higher.
Ist filtering Hurrake we have on the page.
The further we go down maybe I'm just
edding like a more filterist,
then I'm alright.
I mean,
even with the implementation we have,
we just have them more transparent.
We have them not actually food about
right now. Yeah,
but it's basically thing questions like
we're a one of four day to send or just a
future of data set because why if I have
changed for example the day?
Transporter to go now the range I had
select.
Like,
do we truck it then because if we truck
on it a visible rates, then it won't be,
right?
Ja.
That's what I mean.
It's like a business requirement.
We want the whole gate to say to object
to fisigue point.
But we are running in circles.
I think this can be resolved in the swim
round of four questions to Patrick.
I mean, I can directly asking that.
It's already on there this sticky.
S von.
My opinion. If I include the date, yes.
OK, but all and all,
it is clear what should be happening.
In my opinion and my assumption is we
have to respect at least the the filter
up top by up top,
I mean the date filtering.
For the transport orders and for the legs
and lots,
we don't have to respect any filtering.
So what about if I put the filter by the
address and this is had 2 student.
I want to see only from Stuttgart.
We have here nix gemacht.
It's a filter on the last right on me.
It's because I have filtering the summary.
Und das jetzt auch, but is against so.
Und die alle, auch nicht, Herr Schumacher,
das geht. Yeah, we couldn't must give it.
Ja,
when the ultimate goal of having roughs
estimates for all ten topics, OK.
Is it far away?
Good, what's next? So we have 20 minutes,
17 minutes until Ivailo joints back.
Oh, is there another small one?
Two numbers. Two numbers.
That's good. It's good.
It's like more complicated.
But the two number don't really we have
to do anything because it's refined.
The whole thing is refined.
I have talked to Patrick because
yesterday we had in the refinement.
But this question,
if we need to have a changed or not.
It's confirmed.
We don't have to change it.
So and the other story is already refined.
It has goodly is in it.
So we can just script. Then question.
One more question.
When we truck these updates,
let's say that one specific record has a
data move.
Put times in a row some fields.
Do we count this is a one change or
multiply ordinate?
It doesn't matter as you do a select
count.
Oh,
just in general on business perspective.
It's a like has been your transport order,
has been changed multiple times like
changed multiple films.
We can't changed objects,
not changed residents.
In Ordnung, ja.
We can't changed object not changed
intense.
All right, then I think.
Should we go into investigation on road
calculation or GMS Ora?
That's also ongoing.
We just need to yeah talk about what's
after the POCs.
That's also maybe tends to be longer than
15 minutes.
In my opinion, if we want to 15 minutes,
right?
Let's go on the yeah,
may just start with the easier topics.
Ora database testing.
So let's assume.
Joachim and the TMS Team have updated the
database, the Oracle databases.
We have an adapter for the database.
We have a CDC working and now we need to.
Test this all.
Yeah,
if it is working as expected as the
progress database, hostgress databases.
What are we expecting of effort?
Is there something to consider?
Can we use our unit test?
We have already written.
Is there something I'm not seeing because?
My understanding would be it's a little
bit many of work.
Our unit tests should work the way they
should be if they're not if they're
providing errors. We know OK,
there's something not working.
Mostly many gives. Very small particle.
So OK,
it should be manually tested from I going
to hope.
Is there any automated integration test
stuff like that? Yet,
because in the theory,
the same behavior is expected from post
present Oracle right?
So if you go high enough on the
interiscal level or.
That team as bridge level.
It doesn't man of which engineers
connected.
But we don't have that.
Mhm.
That automated tests.
So we can make some kind of plan to like
those statements be be fast and because
actually this Oracle database wasn't
updated like.
For the life to do this post up for like
one year.
So I guess that Jokin will because he's
doing everything manually. Yeah,
I think that you'll probably miss
something to at I guess. OK,
but this is not about fixing.
This is just about I think we need a test.
Table a test plan if we don't have it
that we extend while developing new
features and that is run through every
time we want to have a regression
confidence.
And it covers all cases, scenarios,
combinations of all entities with a given
input and are expected output.
That must be done for both engines.
And then we know it works or doesn't.
And what is RED and doesn't work gets
reported to GMS and we need to fix it.
I straightforward right.
In theory, your smiling, yeah,
because I thought you're looking at megas.
Just yeah, sorry, mighty.
It worked you doing that,
you may have to say it.
We want those I mean at you to go.
I see the point in hearing like a test
place,
but do you want very career for creating
tests?
Instead up like focus income actual
disting thuses. I mean,
the thing is this is the question is what
do we want to have?
What is not sufficient and looking
forward we will be having more databases
to be connected.
To our our environments, our app,
what we want to keep this automatically
door on their side,
this is what we want to keep.
If you asking it,
I there want to keep because even for the
photosal restead of we can't can't go
live onto.
They have automated deploys this from
properly and this still stands.
It's still standing.
So this is what we need to deploy from
their side it's OK to best may or right
from one two ties,
but we can't do this for each branch. OK,
but.
Not do.
Let's not do go into different branches
right now.
We want to go live with one branch and we
need to since we are implementing this
feature,
let's just call it feature that we can
connect to Oracle databases.
We do this for the cloud forward,
we do this for other project. Yes, yeah,
that's not the question.
If this one breaching,
is it complete post guess or or or or or
or or or limite? If it's 1060,
it would be Oracle, if it's 1034,
it would be.
Post right. So both a ****, both a fine.
I don't be just instead stone going clip
with the postgress because we worked all
time with the postgress database because
the different decisions that basically
there's a different.
The WMS project like the other team here
from Bulgaria,
which is which was working the last few
months on is basically going life at some
point. I'm not sure when, but.
Soon is similar range,
similar range and basically it would be
great to have these two and they have
their WMS system working and we can even.
Start planning those pickups from there.
1060 is Oracle.
For the database,
we would be working with.
It's a higher strategical value for them
with that branch and that happens to be
around.
But we still don't have an answer if this
is even going to happen or lunch.
So I have me there's time to you.
If he's going,
if you're going to like a convert or
those object to corrocal,
why not to be all the into the scripts to
the definition scripts because do they I
know like some correctment I want here,
do they have like automated?
Boll, Rocco.
Uh, maybe some parts maybe some parts,
but I know that in general their decision
wasn't I open formed you guys that they
have there are more confident in the
Oracle because they use it like.
For past last years and there that's why
I think they they switched to the oracle.
So I guess that we will also need
switched.
Yeah,
but we we just need to make sure we know
how we gonna test a fully migrated or
that is this task here.
And it doesn't really change from others,
but cocess the Bridge heights it.
We know what to do.
I want like.
The idea here is to have this step or
down one time,
not suppending cost of the foragine
branch which gets onboard it right. True.
And if this is not the automated and I
don't know that they're certain scripts
in a certain way that can can fear that.
So the next data basically can on what I
can the same thing. OK,
should do the bit in send it's one time
effort.
We put it like that and we say it's ten
days, 58 whatever one time effort.
Do we have an idea what we are aiming for
right now? Let's testing our app.
Not in the business sense,
but basically testing the functionality.
Basically our endpoints they're working.
Prooperations. Yeah, just that it works.
Oh functions,
there's no really much testing in terms
of our end.
The different part is really the data
behind then it something felts been eight
nine percent.
Yeah, but still.
Still,
we are testing the end to end connection
and basically saying, hey,
this doesn't work, this doesn't work,
this doesn't work.
Just pointing fingers and just
highlighting and raising it,
this doesn't work. Yeah,
this is not our responsibility.
And it's it must can start from sorry to
the we can start from just going through
the postgres scripts and just checking
quotes missing in Oracle and getting the
list.
That's yeah,
but that's what Joachim is doing already,
but it's not just librating already.
We must make sure that the same that did
technically works,
so every bridge mapping to database works
technically and.
That it returns the expected results.
Both is important,
so basically a stating net for us.
We are providing our app and we can
continually say it is working with a
migrated database.
And if this is not the result of our
testing,
we're saying this database object is not
working.
This database object is not working.
We'll do that obviously,
but this should happen only after the
migrations to.
Sure, no question ask.
This is after everything is done after
Joachim Stays,
he's confident that everything works and
then we do an enter enter.
Really have the same set of the database
to there, like if this UIT import.
Oh, I'm my own in Oracle. Oh,
we don't know.
We don't only just met.
Because like if he does this for this,
let's say that he defines like those
scripts and some of the black that the
scripts they normally execute,
we could ask probably to have the same
scripts that you let also on the UAD and
check whether everything is worting
betters of that could.
Give us a security that for example each
database they migrate input have the same
objectifying even if it's not fully
ultimate before the startbody goes and
excuse those scripts use they have a
particular order and can guarantee
adapter executing those scripts.
Let's say not by defining millionities by
the cuting scripts which are already
defined if let's say the UHI,
the Hesitation their works normally
refine confidental for work.
Of proct as well.
I pretty sure they do cave this for
environments.
They have in more environments than in
post risk. I think it's, yeah,
this actually concept of giving this for
environment is actually coming from their
Oracle. Yeah,
just fine I mean that will be personal
because if you do some this.
We can just go on to go check the just
buy institute in the scripts and check
the body to export the scripts.
They have the number of scripts which is
looked probably to the they the face may
go into increase automatically somebody
marks.
It's gonna get any people mine specific.
Well, we'll go on to two minutes.
All right. But you get a won't seat.
That's free.
You're all right.
But to be all sure like we don't do any
in between testing we do and end to end
testing after everything is done and just
want to make sure basically the last tick
analyst.
Our web, our app is working with Oracle,
with the database you have provided great
we can release.
Weeking go lights.
And.
All right. Thanks for the details.
All right, Matthias.
Do you want to take away again? Yes,
please.
So where did we stop transcrational
behavior TDC Arrow flow? Yeah,
like UI brief in National,
something like the transactional behavior
like.
All right, yes.
In addition to to the CP54 where we let
the interaction to the user to the trip.
I was wondering if we can improve that
because like most of the time something
fells would be, for example,
our new disputed place failing for some
reason.
Either outage or we cannot store the data
there, so.
Can we introduce actually kind of a
stagger pattern and when we execute the
operation on the TMS if we felt to do it
the operation on our end,
we just execute the opposite operation?
I think this will.
Bring a lot of benefit because first like
we have a very few of these scenarios
where we have this mix of I mean where we
have this atomic workforce we have like
four or five cases like this.
Obviously this we want so of all the
issues and there will be times when if.
We'll eat to fell anyway,
but I think it to be kind of a good
safety net to old this.
So my comments on that usually doing
corrow back is when business constraints
do know how anymore like from from
business perspective like someone some
model.
Somorrow using.
So let some some other user modify the
same set of data, for example,
like rearrange these referencies,
shoot months, et cetera,
and then obviously the change you
introduced that's not any more relevant.
So it's let some fail or some
intermediate data inside and you need now
to robot. The question is, do you hear it?
Usually,
Saga pattern is the most complex
distributive pattern that exists.
I wouldn't go straight ahead with SA.
I got not implementing the full Saga
pattern.
Button is just that if we, for example,
but you need to like is it is the
operation phone to let's say not fault
anymore and you need to do a rowback.
Well, yeah,
we have this synchronized state like.
They have a pattern for tracking who
changed what when.
And they insist on that.
So they do that internally in TMS and I
think I remember that they block off
changes that we want to execute if their
word changes from another user in the
mean.
So we would get back.
Pascal decline from TMS.
So if TMS decline is already,
then you'll obviously the managed me
sured any non relevant changes.
Obviously because the the understanding
keys with the overall behavior should be
like first we try to change the TMS at
the it's the mass rank of the beta and
then the new redispo is just.
Like some supplementary data that needs
to be executed post writing to EMA.
So as longer as there is a sufficient
concurrency control.
Between within TMS I don't think very
looned for new gispo.
To have this kind of a complicated logic.
When I mean,
just solving the disynchronization issue.
I'll just imagine that, for example,
we execute the team as operation we felt
to do it on our site in our new dispo
database then instead of just gaving this
this synchronized state, we simply.
Rever back our change and return error to
the user staying that the operation was
missed.
But where do you reverte our change into
the DMS?
And then like if you are attempt to
reverse fails. Yeah,
obviously that's but usually in practice,
it will be.
This would be very,
very obviously then it will fail,
but we have failed anyway to to
synchronize.
And in it won't doing much more harm.
And in in most of the cases,
the point of failure would be new disple
database and we would expect that the
chemic operation is in might being not
the most.
Appropriate way to deal with distributed
systems like you can not hardly like go
the optimistic way and try to reject a
particular umm let's say change like roll
roll buck because the roll buck might
fail without the persistency.
It's better to try moving forward,
like what what prevents it to move
forward is potentially some trunks and
and availability of the database.
But in the robate fels,
we are still on the point that we were
before no more harm was done. OK.
But still you are not like focusing on
incorporating the actual behavior. Yeah,
you can do it as a supplementary thing.
So the main thing is we should be
acknowledging the fact that the user
potentially would need to fix that data.
Driven by the user to like align these in
consistency.
That's the safety neck and then the rest
could be yes optimization so you can
reduce the yes what what needs to exist
is like.
This mind potentially yeah,
you can try rollback,
but even mind that rollback my go to fail.
Yeah,
also we we are based in a limit budget
and timeline,
you must build the minimum possible.
But this really very easy that's what I'm
saying this this this.
All back safety net,
what do you very easy to implement,
but it's on top. We can go without.
I think we can even justify that with in
front of the client.
We can try it all back if it felts.
We are few when we were and if it's
succeed where we we want out.
Todays,
let's first like go in the safety met,
which is obviously tried to main the
operation like.
Let's finish the implementation.
Let's finish the testing.
Let's go a backlock of potential
optimizations.
Let's see if if time this could be
introduced.
If no time left because of obviously we
were late with other implementation
changes for testing them.
It's like the interesting it's like one
day. Well,
you can guy some stuff like here one day.
And our picture one day.
It's a rent one you start accumulating
such kind of nice to have stop.
Then this this might's potentially harmed
overall delivered.
Can you keep in mind that this needs to
be tested, right?
I mean,
someone would need to test all these
scenarios, retrol back, et cetera.
And I quickly this fribe again what you
propose or what I think is covered in the
core with this diagram because we already
have it here validation validation error.
This is the kind of error I.
Good, good that scenario in.
For example,
if another user has changed the transport
order in a way that conflicts with what
we want to change,
I'm sure talking about that.
Is that not what you mean or not do? OK,
I was talking about handling the issues.
When we tell to data state in hour
municipal database, that's here. OK,
let's say that days are out each in hour
municipal database,
we just try to a state to roll back and
if the rollback succeeds we still return
the error to the user and the user still.
Can try the hoe operation like this is
just an audition.
It's like a happy part that this part.
You can started transaction before you
like introduce a change of TMS database
and if that transaction cannot be started
then obviously the request will be.
Rejected.
This is like much easier to implement.
Again, say my idea, it's also very nice.
You don't need to do a robot.
I just make sure that the database is
available and you hold an open
transaction.
With the new digital database, yeah,
then you execute the change against TMS
breach,
while still holding the transaction open,
and if the new database was down.
before you actually attempted to connect
to KML breach,
then there would be an even earlier
favour returned back to the user that
obviously there is an unavailability to
get the database.
So,
that kind of instead of opening
transaction on a later form.
So we have here commit local transaction,
right? But where that transaction is open,
where that transaction is created,
more or less flexible. In my opinion,
it should start before you do that
synchronised PMS. Yes.
So you mean try to execute the new dispo.
Update first,
kind of like by starting the transaction,
trying to no,
we just starting the transaction,
we just make sure that there is no
database connectivity, not changing.
I got a simple.
No, it's more of a synchronous flow,
but it rather ensures availability and
fail fast.
It's more of a fail fast approach.
If the database is not available,
we fail fast to the user.
So, we say...
There is an internal error, try it,
try it later,
and we don't introduce some inconsistent
changes,
and that's already a really good
optimization, even without.
Let's implement some business-level robot.
Oats.
You also probably can we summarise like
the minimum amount of steps we need to do,
probably. So, first, if I'm not wrong,
would we like to make those operationally
impotent? So,
it's like essential thing to enable the
retries,
then we should make the retries available
to the user if something goes wrong.
In the transaction.
Like,
what just what you just discussed is in
here's not to this overflow,
and what also should be locked is what we
discussed, but just after the log,
should be locked if you try, yeah,
it's a good idea to lock, let's say,
on that something going wrong, apart from,
let's say, letting the user know that.
There was an issue with submitting their
layer. So, for example,
what you could do is like you...
First thing is, like,
what needs to be modified is this kind of
identity check.
If the operation itself is not identical,
what you can still do is like check,
like do a query,
cheque what the current state is,
whether that record already exists,
whether it's up to date with what you're
trying to do.
modify and then try to modify and if it's
actually the same change that you're
introducing, you don't do anything.
Otherwise,
you just trigger your change and then you
have a response back and then you
introduce a local change.
What happens if you manage to introduce
the...
Remote change on the DMS side,
but you didn't manage to interview the
local change.
What happens is the database,
the new database gets inconsistent. Yeah,
so in practice,
you can like give a message back to the
user.
The operation failed. Please try again.
Yeah, yeah, this is this is clear. I mean,
this is what, like,
is the minimum package thing to do. Like,
my question was more like,
if it does this, let's say,
two or four times,
and we still can't execute the operation,
is it probably a good idea then to have
some table,
like a initial version of the outbox
table,
where we keep like the failed operations
which failed multiple times, let's say.
I wouldn't do this, but instead,
like we can also do,
let's say the user gives ups at some
point,
then we the user that the user already
knows they're going to consistency,
so we will be also having some kind of
logging that will be able to recognise
this kind of.
Anyone would start troubleshooting.
So the better idea is to do it with the
lockdown, right? Yes,
we also have a lock statement on
something.
So that should be written even earlier
and deleted once we succeed.
Otherwise,
it's not guaranteed that this lock is
stored. Isn't it like transaction at all?
What kind of what kind of lock we are
referring to?
I was thinking about more about,
let's say,
lock in terms of standard logging.
Like part of the observability,
so other than putting in the database,
if we want to enhance flow the business
flow with something like we have a
preliminary change that's currently
pending, and this is another thing.
so the user can later retry on that
record. Yeah, that's another thing,
but it's more complex.
This is one like one step towards.
Outbox, yeah,
even though it doesn't have the
complexity,
but still require implementation,
partial outbox preparation.
It goes a bit into what we discussed
earlier with support members on the
service test resolving these issues,
then it's probably enough to have it in
the locks and not in a delegated table.
One more thing,
I see we're back to the transaction
behavior.
We have half an hour left.
We have a lot of other topics.
I think we have to descope this somehow
and try to...
Find a solution, a dedicated session.
But right now... All fine,
let me wrap up then.
Can we confirm in this round that there
is a possibility to build something
minimal that is not the full-blown outbox
pattern, but still
Covers the needs the user has.
I think that can be confirmed.
Any words against that?
Because that's what we...
There's no words against that.
My only concern is covering this outage
scenario,
so where we need to actually mark the
record as desynchronized,
and how easy would that be?
I just think that it might add complexity.
We could definitely add complexity,
not only around...
The instruction,
but also around the UI to represent these
data, also around queries.
When you query the data, potentially,
in some cases, they might not do this,
want to exclude that change.
I'm not sure that we might go with this
simple report approach, actually.
End up being...
close enough complex to something more.
So what we have right now is relatively
optimistic.
We can just enhance it for the
pessimistic case driven by the user to
perform a retry.
And the user in theory can retry after,
let's say,
they have been modified by some
or that they're free to go with their
change now, like they, for example,
that the issue gets fixed, et cetera,
and then we can give you a retry on the
front end.
If we have the operation identity,
that's for sure.
We can do easily.
Martin.
All the rest is very complex,
and that's it. I mean,
don't want to steal the rest of the.
Yeah.
If there is one that fits in between the
user try and full outbox.
Oh.
Is like these kind of local track changes,
yes, locally track changes,
locally pending changes, yeah,
to be retried by the user.
All right, one question.
How's everyone feeling?
Five minutes of break,
or we can just continue.
I'd say, let's just use,
you won't give his here, yeah, until four,
I'm not here,
so what is we can probably break, alright,
good,
then let's move on with CDC error flows.
On.
Too small.
Better, good. So,
what is the business context? Currently,
we...
Don't have a real handling of CDC
failures.
The current model can be seen here.
The back end acknowledges everything with
the 200, even if things fail.
Um, so we need to...
Discuss what is possible.
Um...
First one.
Yes, I think to fix this push.
Not returning a 200,
because that's obviously very nice.
And instead returning the correct errors,
so the event is not acknowledged.
Plus that letter at some stage.
Second one we have discussed already is
switch to pool based.
Uh, mechanism.
Where in the back end controls,
this is already done, right? Yeah,
which one is done? The polling, and also,
whenever something pass,
we return message acknowledged. OK,
it's just a pull request,
but implementation is already there.
I see.
So, both are done, yeah, pull request,
pull request, yeah, but it's not push,
but it's pull, like,
and the requests are fixed, right,
because you covered already push, but OK.
Then the question is,
what else is really needed?
I noticed something which might be a
concern. Actually,
I don't know how I have.
I don't know this before,
but I left you a comment, Ivo. Yeah,
I'm not sure about the ordering of the
events.
I'm not sure what will happen if we
receive, because PubSub doesn't.
Guarantee ordering,
unless you specifically manipulate it and
enable this ordering. So,
if let's say there are multiple...
Update events for a single shipment,
we don't have guarantee that they will
come to us in the correct order, so do we?
But we have the means to control that,
right?
Well, I know that we need to get this key.
I think it's a partition key,
like there was a way. Yeah, yeah,
message key or there was a way to file
loading,
but we don't have this implemented at
this point. This is relatively,
I would say,
straightforward because there is a
function that's currently grabbing the
data from the storage account, from the...
From the storage,
and then it moves them to post up, right?
So, what needs to be done is just for it,
like, have a corresponding.
That's the capability to extract.
Whether they're these messages are
related based on a common property,
and you just use it as a message key.
And that's if that would define the
relative forward look. Yes,
but the same means that you need to
address this.
And probably the question is,
do we even care if there are several
events or do we only care about the
latest date?
Of that record, latest.
The thing is,
with the with reverse ordering or
concurrent processing,
this might happen that.
Well,
a previous version of the records has
been written.
by a concurrent instance,
like the one instance speaks of the
latest update,
but the other one sees the unload update,
unload change,
and then the second instance comes second
with the update.
So you apply the latest change,
and then you apply a historical version
when ordering is not being preserved.
I was thinking to ignore all that are not
the latest.
Yeah, but how do you do that?
Do you have any means of concurrency
control, like some versioning? Let's say,
if there is no versioning.
that can be done on an application level,
then we need to rely on the message
broker actually too.
So, seek one of advancement,
we also need to make sure that these are
also ordered in a correct way when
they're provided to the function on the
storage.
From the bucket,
and then I think that's isn't this.
Actually coming as a prerequisite from
the data stream and the logs.
Not sure when these things will be
validated.
Just you need to cheque that stream to
storage,
and then storage to to unload to to
function, and then...
Obviously,
function to to post up and post up to
consumers, we can fix that,
but the previous chain we need to make
sure that ordering is also preserved over
there.
Our option is if we cannot guarantee
ordering on the transportation layer,
we can try, let's say,
reject their version as Matthias said,
with some level of, let's say,
either timestamp or some version field
that's being incremented depends on
whether it's used somewhere. Every time,
like this concurrency,
like when an event comes,
let's say an older event for some reason
gets picked up after a newer event has
been applied,
we can just compare by timestamp and see
where. Yeah, if there's a timestamp,
you can also do that.
And then you obviously don't need a
message key. You just need to compare.
But keep in mind that this comparison
needs to be done correctly.
So you should be like on the database,
you should be update when you issue the
update statement,
you should state update record X where
timestamp is.
is lower than the time stamp I'm
providing. Otherwise,
it would like there would be some
concurrency issues.
People current,
because when they do concurrent instances
try to read,
they might observe that this thing is
like same time stamp that's obviously
older for both of them.
It needs to be in the workload, so yes,
it needs to be in the workload.
But yeah,
you can write a point about this ordering.
But you should the last thing which is
spending there, right? I mean,
the pool and the fix for the response,
I think we hear it already,
so those are what we need to take care of.
Yeah, and the other thing, I mean,
I'm not sure, but right now,
our CDC is not performant. I mean, I mean,
new events take,
because I think how data stream patches
the events.
Uh...
We received messages with like 5 minutes
and more of a delay, and I'm not sure how.
If the client is OK with that, otherwise,
is there a way to control this? Usually,
there is a trade-off between throughput
and latency,
so if you want to optimise for high
throughput,
like handling peaks of changes, etcetera,
then you sacrifice low latency and vice
versa.
So the way how it would be pulling from
this journal, the database, the CDC,
it's configurable. The more open it pulls,
the more overhead and usually less data
can take simultaneously.
We need to investigate this because as
far as I know,
the data stream intention is towards
throughput.
That's why it acts by batching the
operations.
OK, but we need to also,
I think that this bucket actually slows
us down. I think that there,
there is this work for component which
usually speeds up things.
But another delay could be called from
the bucket side when when the function is
speaking from the bucket,
it might not be involved immediately upon
near their arrival.
Even the observation is that normally a
change is registered in the bucket,
it almost just not to get picked and
processed.
The issue is to register this event.
So, yeah, the issue is, well, of course,
to like to register the event people,
okay, this is like fixed.
Sorry, Ihre.
So could it be that the database also
doesn't have a...
Write back to the disc configured,
not frequently.
Some databases are like buffering changes
in memory and not writing them.
Could disc could be,
but we don't have access to those,
actually.
You're picking this from a Postgres
database and that's on the cloud, right?
Yeah. OK,
then this should be like relatively.
Exactly, yeah.
Usually legacy database are not writing
back.
Immediately.
And also,
like this probably going to the other
point,
like the exact data stream reliability,
but like I recently understood that we
are not connecting directly to the
database,
but rather to an which is like a proxy
which is running on top of it.
Got it,
so I'm not sure exactly how this proxy is
configured, like how often does it?
I mean, is there a specific there?
In theory, that should never happen,
like going through all the documentation
from Google,
data stream should always have direct TCP
connexion to the to the database and
never have a middleman between the two.
Because if, let's say,
this proxy somehow destroys the
connection, the data stream is not aware,
and this replication gets in place in the
recoverable state,
whereas opposed to when there is a when
there is a direct connection,
if there is a network outage,
the data stream is able to recover.
What is this proxy like?
Is it part of data stream or? No,
it's the network component.
Before their database is on itself.
It's something we need to investigate.
It was set up by the previous managed
service provider for reasons we are not
really aware of. They say back then,
two years ago, you couldn't.
provide access to the databases without a
proxy, so that's where they put it there.
Now our data stream instance connects to
the proxy instead of directly to the
databases.
And we see this as potential issue that
is causing these disconnects.
Is it a TCP proxy or it's a network layer?
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure, but when this happens,
when this happens, it already happened,
our whole CDC process gets into
undercoverable state and we lose
everything and we need to reset manually
from some DevOps builder applications for
needs to be recreated.
It needs to be delayed, deleted,
and created again. Yeah, no,
not really about.
That's what I got from the DevOps,
who is currently trying to understand the
whole GPP seller,
because it's not documented.
And he sent me this.
But at least we cannot see the type of
proxy here. It's not defined.
This is just a no naming convention.
Probably, this may be,
tell us somebody who,
so we don't know that.
I would just want to try the red solution,
the Direct Connect in the next days.
We tried it. I think Nikolay tried it,
and he said that he did not have direct
access to the database with the IP and
everything. Exactly,
because you need to set up first a
virtual private.
Connect. Oh, okay.
So we know why there's missing a DevOps
component to be able to do this test,
and that's what I definitely want to do.
But we missed the goal to have Dominik
work on the project.
That's a totally different topic about.
A political one.
But I think we all see the necessity to
try this, right?
Because we don't know the proxy,
why it's there, its original purpose,
we should question that and try it
without.
Um...
Then we have potential in the space of
configuration of data stream.
Of course we can verify.
The bucket speed.
But I think that's not the issue.
What was the other one? You said memory,
database engine could keep changes in
memory before it writes.
But, probably, in theory,
that that's possible,
but I really doubt that on the cloud,
someone will configure such things like
with the RPO. Usually,
they try to keep the RPO near 0.
How can you even find that out?
Does Postgres have a tool set for that?
Well,
we can try connecting directly to the CVC
via some API and see.
Order by some custom tool,
see whether these changes are received
immediately or not.
But.
Cards of trouble should, to be honest.
I mean,
if we develop such kind of two-way or
halfway to...
Let's say we implement what data stream
does. Exactly. Yeah.
Okay.
Or maybe we can connect the data thing to
some other database from ourselves
without this setting and simulate and see
what's going on.
Yeah,
that's also an option: create a dummy
database, connect to...
Data stream to it,
see if changes there immediately.
You want to try that already, you know?
Like, well, testing is on the P3 side,
and the P3, yeah, like a year ago, yeah,
but I think we've used the Alloy DB,
and that is already on the cloud, yeah,
but it also, this is also annoying.
Which is, no, it's in our cloud, right?
In the cloud, but you had delay,
if I remember correctly. Well,
it was like less than a minute,
something like that. Ohh, it was alright,
and compared to what what was the speeds
already used. Well, for example,
we tried like several times.
And no matter how many records you change,
update, or insert, or whatever,
it was like only one minute delay to...
Well,
when we were connecting to TMS database,
what was the delay?
I'm not sure about this.
I've never tried to connect to DMS
database. Actually,
I've just used the CDC.
Do you know what the delay is currently?
I think that 5 minutes from the latest
one,
but in the previous like experience with
it, we hit like 15 minutes or more ago.
Cool,
because this usually this should be like
very, very quick.
They should be almost instantly properly.
I know, but it's strange because,
so what we definitely should do here is
stop the alignment with the client of our
expectation.
I've already told him that this is right
now we have a five-minute delay of events.
Okay.
And Pascal is aware and he hasn't said
this is not acceptable.
Okay,
obviously I need to challenge it or raise
it again. Yes, there will be.
some voices heard,
this will be actually come live and we
need this in written form as well.
But I agree this should be somewhat
instant.
But at least, under a minute, it should,
but...
About 30 seconds, you.
I recently checked out a case for now.
Enterprise customer who were, let's say,
introducing such kind of database changes,
database listening on changes,
and the recommendation back at the time
was to use Golden Gate if you need low
latency changes. But that's all right.
Yes, and it's license.
But it can also listen to Postgres.
Changes those supports post rest.
I would imagine that we don't need that
that much on throughput, right,
for our application. I mean,
what if some changes are late, like...
The.
It's not that big of a deal, I mean,
in my opinion,
but it should not be 5 minutes. Basically,
you create something or change something
in a different system,
and then you're waiting for 5 to 15
minutes that you can use it in the
different app.
This is not expected,
and it's not the behaviour of a good app.
I mean,
we don't need instant refresh of this,
but it should be.
Underneath a minute.
Basically,
if you have to wait for some systems to
do their stuff, all right, but...
All right, I have set the timer to...
Yeah, two more minutes. Yeah.
And then let's go to the... Ah,
this was all just CDC error flow? No,
this was already the next one. Okay.
I think this one is done.
This one is now done.
And now the replication slot object,
this one,
but you don't we discuss that one as well,
like if we're connected directly to the
database,
at least the connexion should be
automatically stored.
Which which one this is highlighted? Yeah,
this is when you let's go there quickly.
So, the replication slot outage,
you have an outage, for example,
on the network between cloud and on-prem
database,
and they have a very limited window of
replication slot coverage in certain
branches.
which sometimes only covers about an hour
of changes. What is a replication slot?
I mean, this is just always,
if you could give me a quick theory,
the journal could be increased on the
database.
But they have limitation constraints,
price constraints. Okay.
Physical constraints.
They can help,
they run it on their members. Usually,
these limits are up to forty-eight hours.
Here, it's one hour. Yeah,
it's one hour here.
It's really awkward because it is,
because the journal,
it only contains deltas on what has been
changed. Yes, so,
as long as they don't like every update
their data.
Let's say if they,
let's say they have a single record,
but they updated, let's say.
500 times per hour,
that's plenty of updates already.
But if their data is mostly, let's say,
updated several times during
business-related flows,
then this journal shouldn't be growing
that much.
In a percentage compared to the actual
data data tables and rows to restore it.
Um...
Yes, however,
we have these numbers from people who
operate these databases there.
And I just...
It's hard to just to like to change that.
Exactly.
They're fighting themselves with it. Pain,
causing pain for them as well.
It's not that they do it for fun or want
to keep these limits low or anything like
that. I...
Just ask myself,
or I think it was discussed in the
meeting, how can we?
up.
Changes once we have crossed this our
boundary.
To make sure we have received all the
changes.
During that outage of, for example,
the network.
Um, it could be...
Why easy if we have a reliable identifier
on the database side?
Something like the updated ad column or
new time.
Because then we know when we last
received data. And once the network,
for example, is back,
we can just do a query and cheque what
has changed since then.
Yeah, how do you know, for example? Yeah,
you missed, you missed a few points.
I think they don't delete it.
They said to delete it with a property.
But if there's an outage on the database,
there won't be any changes during this.
Not on the database.
On the network, for example,
between cloud and on-prem.
So that's just one of the edge cases.
Of course,
it's better to not have this at all.
But now that we have it,
and it's also not...
The question is probably,
is it under the Go Live database that we?
Have in focus right now, if not,
we could postpone it.
That's something we need to check.
And.
Because it's not all of them that have
such a small...
Scope.
And what if there are plenty of changes
accumulated during this or pitch?
Is there another batch layer that will be
taking that on?
The table, and then process them,
like provide them on the messaging to
them for processing.
Sorry,
can you repeat on this high watermark
solution? So,
there is they could be checked, let's say,
give me all the records that have been
updated since, like, yeah,
and when when that all pitch occurred, so.
..
Eventually, these changes,
they need to be reflected back, correct,
and they will be lost from the CDC,
so the main channel fetching that data
will be lost.
What should be the alternative channel
for submitting that data there? Yeah,
this is a typical.
Let's say Lambda architecture,
whereby you have a fast layer,
like the streaming layer,
but at some point you need to backfill
because of voltages,
because you have an issue with data
transformation, for example,
and you need to recompute the data.
So there must be a batch layer
implemented in that particular scenario
to handle these cases. For example,
a job being run,
that will publish the records on the onto
the postdoc.
That's one option, or the object store,
whatever, yeah.
And, well,
why there is a book support in the Office
Store, and these can work,
but there must be a separate.
Yeah,
it also would need to cover frequent
checks, I think,
because how do we know that we have an
outage and lose data? Could we,
could be that, let's say we monitor,
let's say,
the state of the replication via data
stream, and if that's possible, of course,
to understand.
there was an outage and like bigger than
one hour.
And then there's a job run by the ICD
pipeline that would run this batch layer
job.
The the pipeline running that.
Yeah, but replication joke.
Because, if they,
if these guys have issues with capacity,
the transaction or outbox would be
further, yeah, it's also outside of our,
we don't develop on that, I would,
I don't wanna touch it here, even, yeah,
so if let's say we need additional
property.
To, for to be added,
we need to go back to this team and tell
them, "Hey, Paul,
can you just add one more property to the
outbox table? Yeah,
it will take us one week to prioritise it,
and then another week to implement that.
Yeah, if not months, and then we test,
and obviously they didn't introduce what
we needed, and then...
Another round of change, yeah.
Okay.
So, you lost me at some point.
Um...
Which point?
Be precise.
So you get the general challenge. Yeah.
Okay, so after we pass that hour,
let's say it is an hour of changes,
we have to recover these missed changes
because we don't want data loss. Yes.
And we were talking about how to achieve
this because...
High watermark, we would know,
or we would.
What do you mean by high watermark?
It's like,
what's the latest date we've successfully
received changes for? Yes, and with that,
we can go back after.
Two hours, 10 hours,
or it doesn't matter to the database and
actively pull the data that has changed
since, yeah, and that's the batch mode,
because we do it in batch,
we pull it in in one go, yeah,
and process it instead of having them
come in.
Where exactly we are going to pull?
We are pulling from the right now,
we are pulling from the...
We don't pull right now, we get pushed.
Yeah, we change to pull,
but we pull like from the books from the..
. Yeah, that's there.
But the events in case of this outage and
the events flow,
there will be nothing there.
We would push them there.
Our side stream for recovering is a batch,
is a pull,
and this can feed into whatever we think
is a side application.
It's a side application. It's new infra.
new infrastructure. From my experience,
like even though someone might be relying
on what we have this fast layer,
like we listen on some changes and then
we just replicate these changes live,
it always happens that essentially you
need the batch layer, for example,
such as...
like one hour outages,
like overfills the buffers and then some
changes are lost or we have some data
quality,
data booked in transformation logic or
booking,
preserving the changes and then we come
up with an inconsistent database and then
we need to run the batch process to
reimport.
Historical data to backfill, so yeah,
it's always needed.
A convenience way for me is by having
some kind of a very slim application that
can run as part of a CI/CD job and can be
triggered as long as the data set is not
that big.
We don't need to scale it out, et cetera,
run it on the cloud, and so on. Yeah,
and it's a one-time manually trail site
application,
it will push messages to the PubSub. Yes,
it will go to the legacy database,
it will query,
give me all the records from.
Pacific timestamp that was provided as
part of the job.
of the CICD pipeline as an input
parameter.
And then it would go over there,
query all these records in batches,
and then publish them on the PubSub.
Obviously, it's going very, the leg flow.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm going very nicky-picky here,
but what if sending the messages fails?
Midway. Doesn't matter,
you understand that it fails and then you
run the job.
But OK,
so you update the timestamp after every
message, you said? No,
you would see like someone from support
or their guys would see, hey,
let's run the job, then the job fails.
They go to the lock,
see at what point it fails,
then they get the timestamp and then they
run into the news timestamp.
When this the missed data lost drinks,
and sometimes it's a bit like the manual,
I mean manual recovery from this exact
situation. Yeah, yeah,
but I don't think it's like solution to
be implemented right now. Yeah,
let's go minimum,
but if we just would have to cover the
leg creation, we could just adopt.
The existing batch import for next.
But as soon as we have more business
processes triggered from Sendom's changes.
We probably need this one.
Right,
otherwise we bypass pops up with the
batch import of legs.
Change handles generation,
because the generation generates less
symbols,
while the changes handles actually handle
the changes which occur in the OK, yeah,
yeah, I doesn't, yeah, OK.
Can we discuss that these schedules
should be in the content?
What are these canvas?
This message event canvas.
OK,
do they operate on full record snapshot,
or they operate on deltas like only the
data? OK.
Wait a second,
the handler which picks from pops up.
Yeah, it only gets the pub-sub event,
right? Yeah,
and updates data in our new disco
database, yeah,
but right now these are not important.
Yeah,
but once it's fixed to be a dampotent.
Wouldn't be an issue when without this
where condition with the timestamp.
Right.
That shouldn't be an issue.
Because you fear duplicates here?
There will be duplicates for sure when we
trigger the batch.
We are not sure like at what point,
what kind of records are missed,
so someone would be like just making sure
that they run it, let's say,
10 minutes before this.
Network outage was.
like spotted by the monitoring.
Fresh air, best.
Can you just to be sure,
but we cannot exactly pinpoint to the
time stamp, but...
No, I think we can go all the way,
just hearing that they were supposed to
not order. Alright, but we can sit here,
yeah, yeah, yeah,
but we all want to because of, yeah, yeah,
true.
So, like, should we,
is this something that we should aim,
like, to June, or,
or we could take out this protection
afterwards?
Now, what was the question for me? Like,
is this something that we should aim to
carefully until June,
or is this something we could go like,
or just going on?
It depends on the first sticky.
What's the first sticky? Sorry,
I can't zoom in. Oh,
I need to zoom if the database that make
them bigger.
Go live is not limited to one hour.
We probably don't have to do it now.
You mean that they have it only on
somebody defaulting on certain,
only on some default on the bigger ones,
some branches? OK,
they face that partially.
Can you repeat about why we don't need in
the potency, like on the on our handles?
We need it, we need it before.
Because the batch process would always
insert, try to insert duplicate, yes.
OK,
I was surprised that you guys look
closely, so, yeah,
it's a tough topic as well.
Good,
so it was not tough when you're showing
this complex diagram and told this Brian.
I think then we cover everything. OK.
Um, alright.
Do you,
do we need evil for any other topic?
Matthias? Maybe while we're at it,
we could quickly go through the GMS files
or integration. Because we have 6 minutes.
Yeah. Just let's think it through quickly.
Is it nice quickly? No, it's fine.
So,
I think for everyone who is not involved
in this, they can take a break, like,
for absolutely.
Sorry, but I really need to,
I will call me off. Yeah, thank you,
as well. Sorry, so,
you can call as well when I have wake up.
Is there something to eat?
What do you need? Something? This one?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Can you help me off that announcement?
It was something. Yeah, I should have. No.
All right,
so it is gone in 6 minutes anyway.
Currently,
we only have a Postgres database
connected to the... Sorry,
for the facilitator,
now we are entering the team as Pulse
Oracle extension.
Right? Yes, we do. All right,
now continue. Good. So at the moment,
we only have a Postgres database,
Alloy DB and GCP.
What the client wants is to connect
on-prem Oracle databases.
For that,
we are running 2 POCs right now to
evaluate the CDC tool to be used.
One is Stream,
which they already use to replicate data
of five databases from on-prem to the
cloud for full replication, by the way.
And the other one is data stream that we
already use,
but this time with the Oracle connector
being used.
Both have their pros and cons and the
decision will be made after the POC
finishes the full holistic evaluation
framework.
Nevertheless, the question arises,
what are the steps left to make this
production ready?
Because having CDC events in probably the
object store is not the full solution yet.
These events might have a different
signature, different structure.
So,
we definitely need to think through the
whole chain up until the application,
where actual business logic is triggered.
Do we need to support and post risk?
Simultaneous, simultaneous.
The goal is mixed landscape.
And, some branches would be on,
while others still stuck on,
it matches the mental model of the TMS
bridge,
which actually does this harmonisation
and abstraction.
You don't care on your disco level if the
database is Oracle or Postgres.
And the same must be achieved for the CDC
solution.
So I just put it here in preparation
because I haven't,
I only saw the first event today of
Oracle. We can now starting,
start the cheques or if there are divs or
not.
If they have the same signature,
then I think you probably have one thing
left to do, less to do. If they differ,
you need to think through where to do
this harmonization.
and how to do it.
or if we want to do it.
Do we want?
To know in your that's where it's coming
from, there should not be.
Do we know how complex this formalisation
will be? I mean, it's a flat,
flat JSON object with 50 properties.
I mean,
we don't need to like gather information
from several tables just to.
It's one table still,
and probably growing to two or three in
the near future.
This is about the difference between the
formats of stream and data stream.
In terms of representing the message,
and Oracle versus Postgres.
For example,
as long as we use a single tool,
like whether it's stream or data stream,
there will there should be a close to no
problems in terms of harmonization,
because the two and the format of this
will be the same.
I think that the issue of harmonisation
would be if we decide to use, for example,
stream for Oracle and data stream for
Postgres.
Or having the same handles.
Hendle the messages,
so we need to have this unified format.
To answer quickly, in my opinion,
it's relatively natural here in the way
how this works with stream and, sorry,
with data stream and deriving on that,
we can also think about stream scenarios.
So currently data stream, it has
It rather integrates with the BLOB
storage,
and then all of these data is related by
a function to the PubSub, right?
And this function can, in theory,
implement some transformation logic to a
common data model that,
and the PubSub would serve that with this.
Anti-corruption layer,
I don't know what storage, sorry, buckets,
buckets, yeah, yeah, apologies,
I'm confusing that from other cloud
providers, anyway, now about stream, like,
how do we how that would stream publish
data? I guess it can either invoke a...
A function, or it can publish, let's say,
on a queue somewhere;
we just need to have additional
transformation logic as well.
We route it to the object store as well,
right now, to the object. OK,
but it's not, we only need this layer;
we have a code function that's
responsible exactly for.
Parsing the event event that comes from
the data stream and to to transform it to
to the event structure that our municipal
API expects,
so I I I wouldn't do we have some like
driver that...
We need to follow in order to, let's say,
write to the storage. I mean,
in data stream scenario,
I guess we need that because that's the
native integration. But for stream,
do we have anything that mandates going
through, let's say, blob?
Because blob is not really like your low
latency solution.
to go through,
like it's a very slow layer that you need
to go through,
like a bottleneck on a highway where you
need to go through in order to move
forward.
It's where congestion will happen.
So I will try to avoid in the stream
scenario, please, to go through that.
One, if, if, if possible.
I mean, we can cheque that,
but as we already said, at least for now,
this bucket doesn't really cause any
performance issues, I think.
Okay.
So if we don't go through the bucket,
we could send stream to the pops up.
For example, a separate one, yeah,
and then, and then,
and pick the embedded plant function,
pick that from there and do the migration,
add a transformation there,
and publish another one.
That's one of the options.
I don't want to be the party pooper.
You are.
But the time is running.
TikTok.
Please don't go into...
too much detail because it sounds to me
that you're already trying to find
solutions.
If not, please let me know, but...
If yes, please focus on a higher level.
If we directly publish to concept.
Where exactly this synchronization?
I mean, uh...
This.
Harmonisation will take place;
it should be in the cloud function
function,
so new disposal would always receive
harmonised events, no matter the source.
Hey, so before the call function, right?
I think it's after the equal function
pushes the events.
Exactly, so if type data,
if stream push pushes directly to books,
no, no, it's another part,
it's another queue. Ohh,
it's not the same,
it's another topic with another
subscription, then a function, then yeah,
publish to the to the topic that gathers.
The combined.
Events from Dittmann.
Yeah, again,
I think we need to really cheque both the
performances.
Big bucket.
But that's another topic; change it,
we might want to change it for both,
exactly. I mean,
that's one thing we need to do.
Good, but Max then I think.
You are.
Correct to.
Thanks, point us in the direction of...
Fish story.
All right, how big is that?
Not as many.
Um...
What about rock calculation?
You talked about it coming up now, no.
Quick break. All right,
now we can have a wait until 10 past.
I have a bio break necessity. Great.
So 10 past, we'll be back. Sweet.
And in the meantime.
We.
I know.
I know what I'm saying,
the rest of the month, yeah.
This.
Ohh.
Exactly, I just can't,
we are good to have schedule.
OK.
What do you know today?
Okay.
Yeah, but...
It's.
Yes.
Stop.
All the people that's.
I wish to talk to somebody.
Yeah.
OK. All right. OK. Yes, of course.
By the way, you're still sharing Matthias.
Oh, correct. I can do it.
I roll you out of this. Okay,
now let's continue with basically the
investigation on route calculation.
It sounds horrible and it sounds that
we're diving in deep.
But I can surprise you,
this is not the case.
What is expected here is that we at least
investigate what's going on.
Matthias has already implemented some
tracing and is trying to figure out
what's going on. But long story short,
we have the user stories which are
involved are way easier than it seems.
So, which includes, first,
for the route calculation,
we have the issue that we always need a
fixed start time for the first two points.
Here,
we basically have to make some
arrangements,
basically starting with when we create a
transfer order.
that we split up the value we provide for
the performance date and basically split
it up and as well,
while creating the transport order,
trigger a fixed arrival time with this
starting value.
So we create the transport order with
some timestamp, which we set as a user.
This timestamp,
or this time part of the timestamp,
we use.
As an input for the first fixed start
time of the first true point.
Yes.
Yeah.
I see a question in your eyes, Hugo. No.
Okay, good. Then secondly,
basically it is managing every scenario
where the first two point changes or is
losing its fixed start date, start time.
So what we're going to do is the time,
every time we create a start time,
before you can start tool point,
you have to provide a fixed time,
timestamp or fixed start time for this
tool point as well. It's A mandatory,
new mandatory field.
Once you delete it,
you cannot recalculate everything because
an error is popping up and it's showing,
hey,
the first new tour point needs a fixed
starting time.
So basically going over all scenarios
where the
first tool point can change,
also meaning they are exchanged.
And if this is happening,
we mark it red and say, hey,
there is a start time missing.
Please set a fixed start time because
otherwise you cannot start the tool
calculation.
Can we go with the old one?
Would it be easier?
No.
So, how?
If I create the start through point,
why not set the start time to 00.
00 and ask them to change ticket if they
need to?
Definitely won't be forcing any
additional input from the user.
We will be posting an input.
While creating,
like we create a two point, OK?
And while creating the two point,
we're just going to say, hey,
you need to add this field.
Yep.
So, for us, yeah,
but the other way around,
if you just if they need some question
for them,
because if they decide to go with some
default value,
we can just apply the default value
floating care specified by them.
Something we can ask if it's sufficient,
because that way it will be just a matter
of setting a default value and not fixing
the validation flow from the neutral
points.
And by the first two point you mean the
start or the loading one?
Whatever is the first two point.
So here, for this example,
we create new starting two point or start
two point. Obviously, it's the first one,
because the start two point is always the
first one. But once, yeah, go on.
Once you delete it,
the first loading point becomes the first
two point again.
But they need to manually.
Set the, yes, yeah,
and what if we have a start and a loading,
and we have fixed time on both of them,
then it's all good.
Which time we are taking?
For the first two point.
Always just the first two point.
And this is what we need for the
calculation because the calculation has
issues once it doesn't have an actual
fixed starting time.
It has problems if basically,
let's say the worst case scenario is the
last two point is fixed and everything in
between before,
it cannot basically calculate backwards.
Don't ask me why,
but this is just the restriction for it.
So,
what we need to do is provide always a
fixed time for the first two point,
meaning...
Every time this first two point can
change,
we either make it visible via a sticky
saying, hey,
you have to add a fixed two point,
fixed time, number one, or for creation,
make it mandatory. So
They cannot add the two-point without
adding it.
Getting the fixed time.
All right, then.
If we basically,
let's say the calculation has run and
what we have right now,
we are seeing that the fixed arrival and
fixed departure time sometimes vary or
deviate from the planned arrival time and
planned departure time.
So what we receive back from the tour
calculation
is not always the same as what it is,
what should be fixed.
And now what we simply have to do is...
It's a comparison of four values, like...
planned arrival time versus fixed arrival
time,
fixed departure time versus planned
departure time. And if it's not the same,
we just have to visualise it in the UI.
Yeah,
it's basically for them to easily see,
okay, there is a mistake.
The system is not behaving as it should.
And water.
That's it.
That's the user story.
And if there is a miss,
isn't this an issue? It is an issue,
but nothing we have to fix.
You just wanted to say something,
we don't have to do effort.
We want to save effort.
If this is what they want, they get it.
And
The function like the tool calculation
itself is not in our hands.
Where is this exactly as much appearing?
I mean, on the towards or on the top?
On the two points.
I mean, basically,
we will receive a design for it,
but it will be either on the top saying,
hey,
some some two points or some times some
planned and fixed times are mismatching,
and then we make a marker or highlight
them in a different color.
Whatever you can think of.
Shouldn't be too much. OK.
Then, next user story,
get feedback from system after creating a
transport order.
what is covered behind or hidden behind
that.
The user currently doesn't receive real
feedback if the creation and calculation
of a transport order is taking time.
So let's assume it takes 30 seconds.
Why ever?
Currently, we don't see it.
We drag and drop, then nothing happens,
and then the snack bar appears and saying,
hey, it's created, great job.
But we don't, let me simply just show.
Yep,
into the loader over the creation area to
the job.
So, basically, if I do this...
Select a time.
Leicht.
Nothing happens.
Oops.
Right.
I don't know why.
Drive number logged, then probably an.
Four 100, this is a better request,
actually, yeah, yeah, very not good.
Thanks, I was going to say, no, not 500.
Five 100, even more. Oh, that's expected.
Secured the ATM internal server, Harun.
Anyhow.
When you want to see some feedback for
the user to see what's going on.
My idea here was since we're firing more
than just run requests, right? Basically,
first what we do is create the
transporter,
then we add the shipment or the leg to it.
Then we start the tool calculation,
and then, basically...
So, multiple steps,
and basically my idea would be that we
have...
those planning cards,
like an empty planning card appear,
and inside we have basically this
transport order card, and in there,
there's just basically creating transport
order, adding shipments,
Create a calculating root success.
And then here and here.
So we have like a not dummy but a
placeholder card which is just appearing
and in there you see what's going on.
Can't you just use the use the rectangle
which is for the creation?
Yeah.
This would be a great, let's say,
you got that from bridge,
let's say bridge towards the next feature,
which is UI adjustments to this planning
view and other views.
Because basically we want to reduce the
unused space and basically this rectangle
which is just like, I don't know.
taking so much space away for just being
in an area where you drag and drop
something onto it and make it smaller or
a little bit.
just you see so much white space here,
all the space up top,
but I will come back later to this.
It is not clear how we're going to be
making this feedback for the user,
but my idea is that we have these
requests that we fire and get responses
to.
basically visualised in a very simple
view, creating transparent,
adding shipments, creating the tour.
Making your life better, Texas,
something like this, and then disappears,
no, then.
The news,
the new transfer order appears in this
one. No, it's not.
This is like messing totally with the
ordering, sorting, and energy.
View.
Okay, this was just an idea.
Maybe we can do it differently and have
some other kind.
of just maybe you even,
let's assume we have multiple transport
orders we create and they're all
basically in line and like 2 transport
audits in creation.
how and where since we don't have a
design.
Is up to us, so what we can...
If we can,
if we can come up with a solution which
is cool,
which is somewhat nice for the user,
before they can come up with a solution,
like a UXUI solution.
The easier it is for us to implement,
the nicer, and if it is actually nice,
great.
So, basically...
Yeah, well,
like my idea was to use the same thing,
but if you can find ideas for it.
Why don't we use the approach which we
are using from sometime with burning the
all-translate followers?
Hello,
and saying probably something like a
message, create new transport order.
And when he's done, just onboard.
Enter the success bar, created transfer.
don't like the approach because we still
want the others to be interactable.
So basically,
because if we then blur all the other
ones, we are blocked. Yeah. So as a user,
I want to always continue working,
but still want to see
what is going on of the creation I have
triggered before.
And how are we going to make this,
how we visualise it,
it's up to us until now.
We can discuss this with Mohamad.
The closer we are to Mohamad and come up
with a design,
The better,
because basically if Mohamad says thumbs
up and it is easy for us to implement,
great.
So this is basically what this user story
is.
Yeah,
we show loading indicator over the record
a lot which is being assigned.
Yeah, that would be great. I mean, like,
if we can drag the whole card, I mean,
if we take the card, I mean, yeah,
what is going on?
We remove it from the, but like this,
right? Can I do this? You see,
you remove it, yeah, it's from it,
jumps back here.
First,
this is the first thing which happens,
it jumps back here. Okay. So,
let's do this. I mean,
while operation is taking place,
probably you can show loading. So,
let's see. It won't show now. Wait.
Still hitting, okay.
It won't you know what probably something
we could do.
And it would still indicate an operation
is taking place with this item,
with this empty. Yeah.
And either it is over the leg card or the
lost card. Yeah. The same job,
which I don't want to see. I don't want,
I mean, we can decide if we put it on all.
leg cards inside a lot as well,
but I want to keep it as simple as
possible. Why not just, I mean,
if it's a lot view. Yeah,
but let's assume we have this one
selected.
We want to drag and drop this onto here.
Okay.
This one is still here and we have the
spinner here and we see this no
interaction with this.
So if you want we could do it there as
well. Yeah, or do something else,
basically blur it or make it transparent.
But I don't want to see 15 loading
spinners on the screen. You don't want.
No.
I just want to see, I want to, I mean, I,
I something is happening. OK, we can,
we can probably make them transparent,
I guess,
and non-interactable in the mean times.
Yeah, something like this.
We should be doing, yeah, so,
but long story short,
this is the user story.
Any questions for those stories?
Look, I told you, some of the stories,
the features are easy.
And when it comes to the tracing,
the PSD regarding what's going on with
the two investigation,
Matthias will basically lead. Yeah.
I mean, it's nothing on rocket science.
I just got 2 1/2 minutes, yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
Is this my already? Yeah, I still.
Zoom.
So the idea was to have a bit more
insight into...
This chain Max is talking about all the
time,
from user clicks in the front end to back
end to bridge to talk.
This is something I have forgotten.
And the user story, which is not on there,
is basically reworking when we trigger
the tool calculation.
So basically removing for some points,
for some interactions,
the tool calculation. And yes,
this will come with basically
Let me just read it to you, what was...
So,
desire is whenever we change the vehicle.
And the vehicle class changes.
This will be an information we will get
from Joachim. So,
it's not just a vehicle changes,
but a vehicle car. So,
if it's a 40-ton vehicle,
it's still a 40-ton vehicle.
We don't care.
And it's just a different licence plate
on it. But if the class itself changes,
I think it's like one more call,
one layer below that we have to go, okay,
what kind of a vehicle is this? Ah,
it's not the same vehicle as before.
Now we trigger.
Idea.
The only concern if they keep it in the
database, like, because I mean,
the options, like, we don't have one,
we don't have like a drop-down there,
but eventually we would like to have a
drop-down there, right, for the vehicles.
Because currently is a free text there.
We don't have a lockdown for the vehicles
or for the trailers.
What do you mean?
It's a text in the details page, yeah,
yeah, so we don't have like...
Essentially, my idea is,
if we have a drop down there,
if you want him a drop down there, yeah,
the values we retrieve,
like we could retrieve also the class of
the vehicles available, yeah,
but the thing is,
they not surely persist the vehicle class
when they create the transport problem.
I mean, in the, I think it was, I mean,
it is anyhow, if you change the vehicle,
this calculation is started under the
hood, right?
You change the vehicle and then we
trigger the tool calculation.
These are two like in row called,
not in row.
but in sequence calls. Yeah. So if we do,
before we do this tool calculation,
we just add like a...
function did the vehicle change or the
vehicle type change? And if it's a yes,
all right, to a calculation. If it's a no,
you don't do anything.
What if the custom vehicle?
It's always 40 tons.
For now.
The only thing which I'm not sure is
whether, as I mentioned,
keep the vehicle was on the transport
number. We will find out. Yeah,
we need to cheque this one. Yeah,
at least I think it's possible.
And the second time we want to...
have the automated tool calculation is
when we add or remove unassigned
shipments or legs. Would you be sorry?
Yes, this is the thing,
but this is the requirement and for
trailers, for example, we remove the call.
Um...
So.
We try to simplify that.
This is the one story which is missing,
well,
which is not covered in by the stories,
but it should be that.
Do you know, like...
Okay, but like an edge case, really,
but probably something we need to address,
though,
like we know that some of their assigned
functions have some side effects.
Let's say, for example,
could it happen that, let's say,
if I was a driver,
it also drives the vehicle,
but I can't know that only if I assign
the driver, right?
Because I remember hearing that certain
driver drives certain vehicles. Yeah,
again, we will just state once the...
vehicle itself is changed.
Like if we change the vehicle manually,
we will trigger.
This is something and they can re-trigger
this anyhow.
But this is something we're just going to
decide to make it feasible because we
still have no idea what's going on.
From TMS. OK, yeah,
just wanted to bring this, yep.
Good point. Okay, sorry Matthias, now you.
No problem.
Um...
Where was I? You were sharing. Yes, yes,
yes.
So motivation for or the idea of a
tracing this chain from front end click
to back end to bridge to top service to X
server.
motivated by several points.
One is obviously...
showcasing where the big time blockers
are.
to have a way to prove that we deliver
correct values against their interfaces,
which is a common negotiation and
discussion topic with them.
For example, when calculations are wrong,
the question is always,
is it in your dispo?
Is it in the database? Is it an X server?
That's something I wanted to cover.
And I think we probably will also need it
later in operations or stuff like that.
to be able to trace a certain user for
error cases, something like that.
So I just tried to have a little POC
which does this tracing.
Currently it only covers the performance
side of things.
Uh, but I do not can easily.
Extended to support the interface or
handover or passing of objects as well,
and then you can have a full trace of 1
calculation run,
but could potentially be used for other
functions as well,
so we get insights into what happens.
Throughout the chain,
and it could look like this.
Or it does look like that currently.
It's like I said, just a little side.
topic I've started.
So, here you have...
The time on the left,
the component that is...
Currently running this request,
and on the right side you have a
cumulative time.
And here you can basically already see
which parts are taking Lang.
I just wanted to know,
is it getting the X server DTO?
Is it the top service? Is it the X server?
Is it storing the X server, pool DTO,
and so on?
And this can now be seen in one overview,
and I imagine this to be extended.
by the actual data state per call and
interface so that we can see mismatches.
and have an insight into what happens
throughout the components and not just an
end-to-end comparison.
So that's basically it. Of course,
within these six seconds here,
we don't know if it's top or X server,
because for us, invisible.
This is just the whole time it takes from
top server through X server and back.
So we don't really know what slope is at
the X server or top server.
I think this could be added easily in the
top service.
Is this milliseconds or seconds?
Sorry for the interruption. Milliseconds.
Five 1000 milliseconds, 5000, OK, OK,
yeah, the comma is OK, that's American,
OK, American decimal, 6000 milliseconds.
And that is obviously locally.
It's not in the cloud, I think.
You get the idea.
I want to have it available as a kind of
feature flag.
It should not run all the time.
It's something you could enable for one
user or one call or whatever.
just the POC.
I will provide the PRs and then we can
discuss if it makes any sense if the
implementation is good or not.
But that's the POC state. Joseph. Yeah,
in GCP, like we generally already have.
Almost did visibility like we kept.
Traceability of our different components
being the front end, the backend,
the bridge. Yeah,
what we don't have is the visibility of
the outside components that are hosted
outside GSP, such as the top service,
yeah,
and the well TMS bridge we actually do
have, so the top service store.
As long as we add some logs around the
top service call calls,
I think that we can get to it. Obviously,
it won't be that structured, like,
like here, like this, yeah,
being that well structured, but yeah,
we we can can.
I can't do that, yeah.
I know that the one thing here is special
is it's one tracing ID pass through that
chains them together.
Do you have the same? You have the ID,
yeah, over there as well,
and also the interface is something I
think we need to.
It's easier to work them out manually to
grab them,
so this is a way simpler interface and
just be careful the...
data there. Yeah. So like I said,
it's not about the actual implementation,
it's about the initiative,
because I think we need it also to prove
in the future that we develop correctly
against the interface.
That's one main driver behind this.
And I think we can maybe use it later for
monitoring.
All right, good.
Back to you, back to me.
So.
Take over again.
While we do the next topic,
do we want to open it?
I'm awkward. I have to ask Joseph.
I will go over to the game on. Yeah,
you can also have this check.
Yeah.
All right, and then, as a next,
can we quickly talk about UI improvement?
It's A two-minute topic.
Do you want to share? No,
I don't want to share.
I just want to say what we are going to
do. So,
in our workshop that we have with the
Nagar guys, Maximilian Bison of the...
Max from Nahide,
he asked me whether I can,
with like my outside perspective,
as I was not in the project for the last
month,
whether I can kind of review the UI and
can come up with improvements or
suggestions. So,
and I think we all are kind of, yeah,
a bit annoyed by the...
UI that Matt has created and that we were
to,
and the idea is that we kind of optimise
the space on the screen, meaning,
for example,
header part that we reduce the white
space up there so that we can see more
information,
and Max and I sat together and we went
through the screens and just noted some
down some.
some ideas. These are more or less,
let's say, internal.
And then we did a couple of things that
are more like towards Nagle and can be
communicated. Basically,
a lot of stuff we will be focusing in
this feature will be just removing a lot
of white space on this view, this page.
And to keep it short here,
I would say we do a call, Boyan and Coco,
and we go through it and you just share,
makes sense, doesn't make sense,
let's not communicate it.
And then in the end,
we have a list of improvements.
It doesn't mean that we do them all at
once, but we have improvements,
we suggest them, Mehmet can review them.
And then maybe we kind of we can improve
the whole UI together.
Also,
although I do admit that this by space
can be reduced,
I think we should also be careful about
going the other way,
like showing too much information,
because usually this overwhelms the end
user and...
True,
we are just talking about one sentence,
maybe we just talked about, OK, here,
for example, this whole part, if we can...
be more efficient on that space,
you can at least see that card completely.
So those things,
can we make those columns a bit wider,
reduce the width of this part a little
bit,
just to present more information to avoid
line breaks in the cards?
So, those things,
and then this can be included here,
for example,
that is can be moved here to have the
context to the Drescher orders and like
this, this kind of stuff.
Um...
The.
You see the same word? Yeah. Yeah,
it's fine. And as well, like,
that's why I stopped the work on the lots
and legs card.
You see a lot of space here,
you see a lot of space here,
and just because if they are ordered,
and maybe we can remove the...
20 in front of the 2026.
because it's obvious and just get some
more space,
more information on the same amount of
space we got and maybe we will make this
area a little bit slimmer.
This small white area in between, huh,
but yeah,
it's sounding this way to the details,
but I think the idea is clear.
Yeah, see what we can do. Thanks. Yeah,
reducing white space on the on the list
on the on the on the pages, and...
Our biggest not concern,
but the biggest focus would be on the
planning page. Doesn't respond.
Is it the pressure there or is it? Is it?
It has nothing to do with. Should we see?
Yes, yes.
Yes, we should. Yeah, we should.
The question, but yes. All right,
now customer communications,
enabling sending mails.
The sending mail part is already in
progress, and we are...
Are you down there? You have color, Rose.
Yeah, but there were.
Yeah.
changed. And now we have the PDF. PDF,
basically for all, again, to sum up,
we have a format they want to have their
PDF in, or not a format,
but they want to have a PDF for customer
communication,
that the information which are in the CSV
file,
is kind of nicely parsed and yeah,
they can show all the details of it.
Basically,
the exploration we have talked about in
the refinement would be to have less work.
And that's why I wanted to have just a
one story point investigation.
If we can remove and reuse it, nice.
If not, we make it.
We make our own PDF and we are free to
make our own.
It should be generally showing the same
information,
but it doesn't have to be picture perfect
and therefore
We have the lines and creating a PDF like
this shouldn't be taking too long.
Maybe we can even use some AI tools to...
Yeah.
Make the structure of it.
This could be.
Like a, yeah,
task I would think of as well.
Um...
Questions regarding this: PDF is just the
creation of the PDF, and then...
Adding it to the to the e-mail, yeah.
And that should be it. One thing,
it's highly likely that for this PDM
generation, whatever library we choose,
we have to pay for it.
Most of them are paid at least.
The good ones, the one you mentioned,
Matthias and the item that need to be.
Need to be investigated in this state.
I also recommended one,
which is actually there nowadays to go to
standard,
and I think it would be very easy to
implement this with this,
but I think that for our purposes,
this would be also paid.
I think it was like...
The company has more than $5,000,
000 revenue per year;
it's paid something like that.
So I'm not sure.
Is it a subscription or a one-time?
Uh,
it's a subscription per year or per month,
but per year.
And.
I think it was like...
Like 6, $700 per year.
There are some free viruses.
Oh, I know, Nataša,
they don't want to have any kind of cost
like this. We can just make it.
I have a separate topic for you guys,
but I save it for the end. So please.
It's basically just how I know them that
they are not willing to pay for something
which we could just build.
We'll make anything without money.
Build something in a week which costs
5000.
This is something if you have a library
which is like easy to implement and we
know how much it costs per year.
Let us know, because if we can use it,
of course,
I'd love to just have it done and not to
worry about it.
Just let me know how much it is,
and I will discuss this with, I mean,
in the end, if we need to invest 5000 EUR.
It's already paid just by a forward
development test.
I don't know how much it will take,
just assumption. It's already paid within.
A couple of years. Yeah.
I think good time to mention. Yeah. OK,
so the. OK,
shall we have it on the facilitator on
the record or not? I don't think so.
By the way, does it record?
I, I checked half an hour ago.
Yes, oh, right, but...
Hello!
It's current.
I just saw the 5000 euro joke,
so it's there. Hello, one, two, three,
test. It's a joke. It's a joke. All right.
Eight $100 here, $800 there. Okay, anyhow.
Unmute yourself.
So PDF is all clear what we need to do.
Any questions here?
All right.
Then.
Love to make a cheque mark.
And now, adjustments to backend and use.
Here, we have already an example of...
An example,
how this should be looking like.
So basically, this should be, yeah,
I had to do something else. Yeah, yeah.
So, uh, basically, we will great.
We will be having a CSV file or something
like this as like a default version for
now, for the beginning,
as a default white listing. So we have,
we can change this format into something,
but
What this will be?
give us the information which client we
want to see in the whole planning page.
So whatever info we need here,
so this is the person ID,
this is the person index,
this is the name of the client,
then where it is from, whatever.
This is just like a
file which is just showing us how it
could look like.
First, the client itself,
and then the last column, if it is EDI,
if it can work with EDI or not.
So means on the customer communication
page, what we want to see if we go here,
and then select the client stock,
which is...
Is it should be here? Why not?
So we go in here, then the EDI thing is.
Unabled, enabled, enabled, disabled,
disabled, and we cannot send EI requests.
And the both button, obviously, as well.
That's it.
So this for the admin page or not?
This is...
Basically, the...
minimal viable solution for not having an
admin page. So it's some static.
It's a static file which can be exchanged
and that's it. Every 5 minutes. Yeah.
But basically,
so we don't have to deploy all the time.
And so we just exchange the file and
that's it.
Which areas does this tutoring affect?
So it affects the EDI messages and as
well what we communicate,
to whom we can communicate.
So all the clients which you see on the
CSV file,
should be visible here.
And which, if they're not on the CSV file,
we cannot see them here. OK.
If we're here,
we only see shipments from these clients.
from the CSV file.
And that's it.
What about...
We see transport orders.
No matter what.
Because...
We, what we limit is what we can plan.
So,
no restrictions for details on transport
orders as well, or anything like this.
I mean,
we could ask if we should limit the
removing of shipments from a transport
order when they're not from these clients,
but I would make it as simple as...
possible.
It's a clear filtering into the system,
and if the dispatcher decides he doesn't
want this one shipment which is on there,
he can remove it,
and then it's removed and you cannot see
it.
I think it's a better idea to philtre
shipment, which I already started because.
Keeping the,
I think I would imagine the dispatcher
would need to know what is planned and
like everything which is on this
transporter,
so probably it's a good idea to keep them
there, to keep them there,
I need to show even the shipments from
clients which are, yeah, yeah, yeah,
so we show.
the transport orders as they are.
And if someone else from somewhere plans
something else on it, that's it.
But we don't want on our page here that
someone can plan something from an
unwanted customer.
And the reason why is what,
going back to the AVIS, the announcements,
because the announcements are of high
quality.
So they are precise enough to plan with
this.
So there's like 90% correct and nothing
really happens.
That's why.
Where are we going to store this in a CSV
file? Our decision. I mean...
Do the user, will the user be able to? No,
it's a deploy.
And what if we want to change it? I mean,
who will change it then? So basically,
if the stakeholders want to update this
file,
they will basically provide us this file
and then we can update it.
And that is the boy, huh? Thank you.
The redeploy and the redeploy, yes,
but we don't have to deploy everything,
but just the exchange the file.
Is this possible?
That's why we are keeping this stuff.
Basically,
I don't want to spend a lot of effort
because this basically is something which
will be changed.
Next thing.
So I don't want to spend a lot of effort
on this because it will be lost effort
anyways,
but they need it in the beginning. We can,
for example,
keep it in a bucket and just create the
endpoint on our backend to retrieve this
file from the bucket. And this way,
if it gets updated,
we don't really deploy the backend.
Different could be.
So basically, just as simple as possible,
and the need is we can update this file,
not the user,
but we as developers or the DevOps can
update this file without a whole redeploy
of the whole app.
That should work. Yeah.
Ands.
Yeah.
So, basically,
it summed up which customers should be
included in the collection,
the collection planning. Yeah,
but this would require each time,
for example, we need to filter, right?
I mean, this would, for example,
we retrieve the legs that would require
filtering over.
Well, we can have some kind of a cache.
Yeah,
we need the strategy to validate Gieschen,
so, but yeah, we can, yeah, but basically,
as simple as possible,
and if we need to have a redeploy of the
whole app.
And so be it.
But basically what we just need to do,
they provide a new CSV file and will I,
all right,
you can expect this change within the
next.
Weak.
The only way we don't deal with the cache
is if we somehow save it in the front end
or the front end makes the request to
some external.
Otherwise, he'll always be respectable.
Yeah, we can. So, like,
we'll still just probably to to count
this as well,
we'll still generate and maintain all XM
loads,
but just show the ones which are for the
client.
I would say so, because otherwise,
if we add, then we don't,
then we have more work, and yeah,
we are creating and whatnot, but maybe,
and I even...
Yeah.
Maybe the thing which would be affected
by that would be the events which are
basically triggering the changes.
No, what? Not the changes,
but the counter.
Ah, yeah, I mean,
even if we like for the legs and the not
probably, yes,
but like if we apply the filtering there,
we could apply the same filter,
for example, when we cheque the updates,
it's it's not it's trivial, basically,
if we know what we need to track,
but yeah, alright,
but basically this would be it.
My point of view.
Yeah, for example, I mean,
I don't remember exactly what was the
filtering parts for the Aleksandar lot.
But yeah, for example,
like we should philtre by also lots which
do not contain legs for this particular
client,
because I think that the client is stored
on leg level, yeah,
but the client itself would be the pickup
point, and if it's the...
Since we're just talking about pickup
right now.
That cannot be mixed up.
The pickup will be always at the client,
so if it's so the lot will always contain
one client.
We cannot have mixed clients in it. Yeah,
yeah, okay.
Unless they have the exact same location,
which is highly unlikely. If they have,
but this is something else. Yeah,
this is something. I mean,
if we're talking about warehouses where
we can pick up stuff, but...
This will come at some point in the
future, and we're not gonna...
Of course, Kehder is a warehouse.
Mmh.
if they have the same pickup location.
But we will, anyhow,
our legs will be created by...
Where the...
Yeah.
Yeah,
we probably have to think about this as
well.
All we deal with this, but...
I mean,
it will most likely change in the
filtering on the, I mean,
I don't recall exactly how the filtering
for those legs and logs,
but potentially you might need to adjust
a little bit.
Should not be like.
Hopefully.
Maybe we can even make an additional
philtre for lots.
that they're the same,
but we don't want this, right?
Basically,
we need to show only nodes which contain
the legs of this class to fill its
cascade, like a force cascade.
What we need to make sure though is that
a lot,
we cannot end up in the case where the
lot contains more.
legs than we actually show,
because this might be confusing.
For example,
let's say if I have a lot containing 4
legs for this particular client and two
for other client, I mean,
I'm not sure where this is possible,
but if we show one of the four legs for
this client, that would be an issue,
because when he drags and drops the load,
he will see 6 shipments instead of...
Four, we should be.
But then we would be needing to remove
their legs, not create legs, no,
not create legs at all,
but remove them from the lot.
To have like.
Additional grouping, maybe. Basically,
a filtering of legs. Yeah,
additional grouping that we don't have.
Non-accepted clients and accepted clients
be mixed.
And by what? By the name? I mean,
it could be the case if you were any,
because please,
I don't recall exactly the grouping
fields, but we grouped by several fields,
but not the name.
I specifically think that it was, I mean,
I don't recover it.
The client is something I think we are
grouping on,
but this needs double checking and
potentially like discussion on discussion,
but if we are grouping,
if we have the guarantee that I want.
Just wanted to say something.
If it's possible to have a lot with the
likes from two different clients,
does that mean that both of them can make
changes in the same lot?
What?
Can you both clients will be able to add
legs to the same world? The client cannot.
Okay, not the client, but yeah, who?
The person who works. So this is Drescher.
So if the leg, if leg from one client,
if the leg from another client,
have the same pickup location. Yes.
Then they can be moved to the same lot.
Okay. Same pickup location, same,
so same origin, same destination.
as we are using those terms.
Same pickup time, dates,
whatever we have as you see,
could be an issue,
because if I can do this, for example,
let's say I have client ABC today,
and I create a lot with client A and C
with legs from both of them,
then I go and remove client C from the
list.
Like,
what happens with those slots which
contain both legs from client and client
C when I no longer see client C?
Can we have a little investigation?
I mean, it would be,
this is why I marked it as with the red
sticky,
as something I discussed with Patrick,
because if we do scope this.
It would be nice because if we go with
1034 go live.
And this shouldn't be an issue because we
don't have warehouses there,
if I'm not mistaken.
So no same big applications.
Yeah, yeah, we can change things;
we can cheque the grouping first,
because we group by client as well,
then then should be fine, yeah.
Then this should be a wrong grouping
because at some point...
when we do not just the pickup,
but also the inter-network transportation.
So from one hub,
one branch to another one,
we don't want to group those lots by
clients. We just want to have the...
This one needs to go from 34 to 40 and we
just want to plan this transport and we
don't care if this is all from the same
client. It could be nice,
it could be something that's...
would be the dispatcher wants to group by
because it's already in the same truck.
This could be just directly continue,
but it could also be that this is going
in one big group.
Yeah, we can have that for sure,
but as well as something I need to
discuss. Yeah, yeah,
but like potential solution would be like,
if we depends how we define filtering,
because if we find filtering,
we show only logs containing at least one
leg for a.
White-listed client.
For example,
we could show the whole lot with every
leg inside,
probably just marking the ones which are
from the whitelisted clients,
and just giving the idea that there are
more legs inside this,
not only from the client which is
whitelisted, but also this is not.
This is not a good solution. Basically,
we expect not to even work with any of
those legs,
and we don't want to have them.
Anyhow, uh, interactable with the user,
but if we can make them disabled,
we can stay with our photos.
But, like,
if I see two legs and I assign a lot and
see 10 legs already assigned,
I'll be quite confused. I would just...
Let's first see if we even have mixed
lots.
I mean, even if we don't care now, just...
judging by what you said about the
grouping that we want to achieve,
even if we are grouping by client and
this is wrong from business point of view.
then we might not hear them now,
but we will end up having those in the
future, right?
If we group only by two points in time.
Mhm.
So, essentially, if we go with that,
it would eventually lead to a problem.
I see.
If we can do this, the second sticky,
this would solve our problem, right?
This might be already happening, right?
It might be, but if this is a rule,
then we wouldn't have a problem.
Okay.
It is 20 past five.
Next steps.
I think coming to an estimation would be
pretty rough right now on this point.
Would you agree? Yes.
Good, bad, but good.
Um...
So, my expectation, first of all,
going through the targets of this
workshop.
Do we know what needs to be done until
the end of, until we want to go live?
Just like what buckets we have to tackle,
what tasks, what features, what is what?
Yes.
Great.
Are we confident that this,
what we have in mind,
is achievable at all?
And we have an idea how we can manage
this? No. No? Okay.
What is your biggest concern?
Is the facilitator on? Yes.
I think that's important.
Not because of yourself, because of...
Everyone.
But specifically, yes, we have a lot of.
First, we have a lot of gaps, and 2nd,
we are dealing with some complex.
Stuff ahead of us,
and given the timeline of June,
we have already talked to you about this
with Matthias.
I would see this either we make some
fairly big compromises in terms of the
scope of what we want to achieve or
hourly.
No, or else is like highly optimistic,
I would say,
because the first give only the first two
actually 3 counts, I think that they are.
Quite, quite complex.
And depends on like the what what our
strategy for them and how much how big
the scope it is.
But how big the scope should not
influence?
If this is achievable or not, like,
for example, for the for the resilience,
if the scope is like some very,
very basic solution, it's one thing,
and if it's the outbox pattern,
it's completely another.
But for the resilience,
we're not going to be.
doing the outbox pattern, right? I mean,
I think we are not sure of this.
We want to keep it minimal.
That's the guidance.
If it's partially traces of outbox
pattern already,
but still smaller to implement than the
full one, that's already a good thing.
We are mid of March.
Don't go on a timeline, please.
You said June, right? Ignore the timeline.
This is just about whether it's
achievable or not.
How, yes, everything is achieved? No, not,
but,
but do you have an idea how to achieve it?
Yes. All right, then we got a yes,
but we're not talking about timelines
right now. OK, yes, of course,
like there's different ways to achieve
anything. I mean, by Friday,
but it's a whole different thing.
How long? Which Friday?
One 100 percent.
One 100% correct.
But this we can add a tick mark. Yes,
it's the question. Also,
you did not ask the whole team.
Why do you put cheque marks already?
I asked, are we confident anyone has a...
I want to hear what you want to hear.
Are we confident? OK.
OK, anyone has?
Is not confident that we can achieve this.
That we cannot can build this,
and is basically three years.
OK,
at least in the horizon within this year.
It's not just bound to our team,
but we're talking about something which
is right.
This is basically what I want to hear and
how we can manage this is the problem of
Martin. Hey, you didn't mention me.
I just want to remind you.
It's also discussed that nine women
doesn't give birth in one month. Yeah,
true. I know. Make sure. I mean,
but the thing is,
I want to make as much as possible in
parallel.
And whatever you can parallelize, great.
Some things you cannot.
This is obviously here.
Okay, once again, that proved the risks.
I mean, from our side,
what we what we have discussed is
technical approaches and solutions.
I think it's achievable,
the only risk which we can't manage or or
like in any way.
Affect is the TMI side of things.
What happens, for example,
if they can provide us sufficient process
for tracking the changes in the database
for your database.
then there is literally nothing we can do
to triangle changes. For example,
can you sum up what I can put on a sticky
as a risk?
It's not a particular thing. I mean,
I'm just giving an example.
It's not what I'm saying.
I'm not saying that this would happen,
but for example,
for the Oracle extensions,
everything for the Oracle stuff is
dependent on your own call.
Ohh.
And also the testing of of the database,
I would say the same,
is also dependent on their migration and
the way that we approach this thing.
So, essentially, like...
Even, like, for those things,
I'm not sure how we can estimate it,
because, like,
we can estimate our side of the efforts,
but we can't really estimate, like,
how long could it take them to make this
working in a properly working state or
sufficiently working state, I would say,
and, like, this was always,
I have mentioned it before, as I see,
this is...
Like, it's not something new,
but it's the biggest risk for wildlife.
Always the big,
it was always the biggest risk for
wildlife.
And...
For the Aura extension, what was the?
You can put Oracle migration,
there is some updated migration,
because we want to be able to create,
like, for example,
to see a table fully working without
anybody to cheque it, just by executing,
let's say,
the full amount of scripts which are
defined there.
Because otherwise,
if we turn on the real data,
and it's really, really, really dangerous.
OK, messing up with business data. Yeah,
what about Aura extension? I mean,
as far as I know,
he don't know how to let us take out
changes from the Oracle database
currently.
This is the Bob team as pulls Aura
extension, right? Yeah.
We don't have data stream connection;
we want to have CDC for no,
they they can't enable for data stream,
but today they actually configured stream,
yeah, but not data stream,
not data stream.
Yeah.
For that, we need Dominik, and for that,
we need Christians go.
So, data stream not configured.
Yeah.
When you're looking,
one thing we should add there is the load
behaviour on the load.
When we say TMS side of things,
we in the workshop talked about the
wrapper and the interfaces on the Oracle
side. That's the third one.
That's the third one,
but that's the migration. Yeah,
migration of everything that was done in
Postgres the last two years to migrate
back. Sonja, did Joachim already talk?
with you about this? No,
I only know that he's like updating the
Oracle database for related to objects.
Also,
we can put probably connecting directly
to the database with the CDC,
because yours is,
as yours is mentioned by documentation,
we should be always connecting directly
to the database, not.
Proxy,
because if something happens with the
process,
like it cannot regenerate on its own.
That's the, yeah, proxy.
experiment with we still want to run.
Because, I mean,
it's not the theory that it would get
destroyed and not recovered.
We already based this,
so we know it happens.
But it's not something theoretically
possible,
something which happened with the,
I think it was the UNT. So.
And watch the right down,
we know it is malfunctioning.
Well, they updated the the Oracle version,
I think,
so not sure how that this will alleviate
the problem, to be honest, but...
It might be the case that this actually.
It will make it less frequent,
but I don't know.
I don't really know what exactly they did
there.
Matthias,
you said behaviour and the load of
watching.
Of CDC end to end on both Postgres and
Oracle.
Pacific Ihre.
But you can keep both there.
Mm.
If you're thinking of...
The items down here.
What is the biggest risk you can think of
right now?
For what is not on the board yet,
and you're like...
This could be a deal breaker.
I think everything that is connected with
the synchronizations probably risk.
You're saying, yeah,
the whole left column plus the force
column, yeah?
Literally all things non-functional.
Kind of, I mean, CDC is functioning, yes,
but...
It's not a real feature in the sense of
the business.
I think also these these shipments,
they might turn out also very
programmatic. I think logically complex.
I think that they might be some branches
that they haven't thought of.
What do you want? Yes, please.
And.
No, it's still water.
She's so happy when it's out empty.
Sorry.
Hey, Matt.
I think the risk that keeps you on, yeah,
makes it easier, yes.
The risk with this DNA shipments and if
we don't gather all the edge cases and
all the scenarios beforehand,
if we miss something,
this might affect our implementation and
architecture around this feature.
And if we get, for example,
to the middle of implementing this and
then we realise something that is
conceptually wrong. This might just...
This is the issue here.
It might ruin our efforts.
We need to prove the mental model early
before having full implementation or
nothing. To be honest,
the last time I felt this way,
was when we introduced Lex and Valchev.
Yeah.
It was like really something we discussed
a lot, a lot, a lot.
I think that so far it.
Proved to working,
but it's now we have similar situation
and very important to think it through
well. If you think about it,
we spent like almost a year, yeah,
that's what I want to say, implementing,
you cannot speed up how we understand
their domain in case.
Is it too late?
Good stuff, but yeah,
probably this would be the biggest in
terms of effort which needs to be spent
there, discussions, effort, refining,
and so on.
Like the other stuff,
like the synchronisation topic,
it's important for the actual operation
side of the things just to make sure that
we don't end up like having this
synchronised databases.
But in terms of effort and uncertainty,
I'd say that the shipment is probably the.
..
Best candidates in both of those
categories.
And, basically, as well.
Good.
We have a bunch of questions. I mean,
if we're going to do them all on a long
stick.
I mean, better writing them down than us.
You don't see that big of a board.
Okay, okay, okay.
I got it.
We have time.
All right.
Everything what we want to put in on here
now, the earlier we catch it,
the earlier we can tackle it,
the earlier we can set up some meetings
to say, all right.
This is our issue.
Please provide us with the input we need.
And...
At some point, we have to draw a line,
say...
If you cannot provide us with these
details until this point, we cannot make,
this is the part of the release,
cannot make this deadline happening.
And this is how we're going to be playing
this.
Whenever we are dependent on some
information, some input,
some work support from them,
we have to draw a line, say,
until this point,
and everything after is a delay,
at least at one sprint.
It.
One sprint.
Additional thing we have talked about.
Sprints in general,
and we thought of cutting the sprint from
three to two weeks for the next few weeks,
and just...
make it a little bit shorter,
shorter interval.
And not lose that much time.
How do you think?
Basically,
if something is popping up and it's just
like in the end of the sprint,
it is popping up and provided that we
just have it in the shorter intervals and
smaller rounds and...
Best to present,
and it's just like a little bit faster
pace.
And also,
the deployment will be after the two
weeks, yes, so the database, yeah.
I.
Any opinions?
And what about this interview?
Is it going to be? We can see probably,
yes, but we're probably not going to be,
since there's a lot of topics here under
the hood, which is not basically...
able to be showcased except for the few
user stories we have.
it's probably going to be one or two
sprints without a live review any,
because what I see on the left side,
which we're going to be tackling from the
early on,
there's not going to be much to show the
client. It's just
We are building a concept for the TMA
shipments to be to be, yeah,
working together,
and we are working on the TMS pulls
Oracle extension.
It's kind of hard to show this,
and if it's just the UI improvements on
the front end, we can say, "Hey,
this is how it looks like."
And then this is maybe taking some time,
but this will not be...
every sprint.
So,
and I think the live review we can handle
a little bit more flexible, in my opinion,
whether we have something to showcase.
If yes, maybe this even just 10 minutes.
That's fine. I mean,
we'll figure it out about the show.
Tell us, yeah,
probably like we can make sure there's
always like something to move from,
at least something to move from UI,
we can show,
because like the experience is that this
is what makes the most impression of what
we have changed in the UI, how it looks.
How few,
so they can't really see the CC or the
error flow which you have done,
so I think you don't care about this that
much,
as long as the system is functioning
properly.
So, yeah,
my question only concerned with this is,
would do we be able,
will we be able to make like 5 titles for
each sprint, because, like, currently,
as it is true with sprints,
we have 6 requirements.
And, like, it turns out we are,
by the end,
we are barely able to fill a three-week
sprint with items for everybody.
But the thing is,
we are just going to be having smaller
sprints to fill. This is correct, but,
like, I mean, if we are fine with this,
we are confident that we will be able to,
like...
Five,
every five items for two weeks print time
for anybody, that's fine, but, like,
keeping in mind that probably we'll spend
the next two to five months, or probably,
like,
if we discuss the next week or something,
the left column, yeah,
discussing the piece and the and the and
the also the resilience.
Stuff like this, I mean, not the teeth,
because they have like another one knows,
but the other, the estimation,
the resilience,
and maybe the things which are basically
just backend, yeah, yeah, I would just,
I mean, if we can't refine items,
that's fine, I mean,
it's okay to have two experience, we...
Used to hear this, so it's OK,
but like this is my only concern,
probably what I will be able to define
like items for the design.
Mhm.
Okay.
Yeah, actually,
it cannot be the issue to have enough
stuff refined.
If that's the case,
we have to switch in the mode of pure
refinement days. Maybe,
maybe we still have a refinement sprint.
I don't know. And then go back to work,
basically. I mean,
that's how Albert Einstein worked.
He thought about the problem for 55
minutes. That's work.
Different approach would be to switch
completely to, for example,
a kehdert mode,
but I don't know if we want to switch
that drastically right now.
So then you can work on the things that
are ready. You can pull them.
I have a former president. If they should,
even if you come on board,
we need to find them. Yeah, sure,
of course. Yeah. Exactly.
But always starting a sprint with just
half of a refined backlog and then just
pulling it in.
It doesn't matter if it's two weeks or
three. Yeah,
it takes away the form of pressure on the
brain. But I mean, yeah.
It would already break the HR rule if we
do a refinement week.
Next week, not how it works, usually.
I mean, we can't honestly follow this.
Is the agile pattern that is, yeah, yeah,
so...
I think it's clear what needs to be done
if we now need to get down.
All the stories and backlog,
then we do it and don't work on
implementation for at least a few days.
After that, we have the backlog,
so we switch back to implementation once
the issue,
which is a bit more problematic.
Okay.
Cem.
We will be switching to two weeks.
Or just...
not have this sprint character anymore.
I think it's worth considering this,
actually.
Yeah. Question is,
how much communication is required with
the client?
Do we need to get this approved or is it
just...
Can't we just make a test sprint or test
2 sprints in Kanban or something like
that? Just try it out, see if it works.
I mean,
we literally see that the three-week spin
doesn't work right now.
So why don't we just say next week is
special week? After that week,
we find our new rhythm.
But the thing is why it's not working is
because right now we are still like,
we try to build the road we are like.
Driving on.
We have no horizon of refined item
backlog, which we can just basically...
used.
We have to stop preparing stuff for some
time to focus only on refining and
thinking of how are we going to be doing
this for one, two or three days in a row,
which is tiring. I mean,
as sessions like this, it's exhausting,
but it helps to get like an overview and
not just have like little pieces.
and it will help us in the long run that
everyone is aware of what's going on.
What do you mean by not working? Yeah,
just depends,
'cause I'm not sure what what do you mean
that when you say the three sprints are
not working?
I'm not saying 3 weeks sprints are not
working.
I'm just saying that currently we never
reach this point where we have enough
refined items.
It has nothing to do with whether it's
two or three sprints.
Yes. Yeah,
I think the question is that we have too
many questions which should be addressed
to Patrick or to somebody else.
And we are waiting for the answers after
that.
And that's why we don't have so much
refined items.
Because the questions we are asking are
not something that you can answer.
Max, I think that's the problem actually,
and that I don't know how often are your
meetings with Patrick or somebody else,
but if after that he has to ask somebody
else, then...
So,
maybe arrange like some kind of a weekly
technical meeting with Joachim. Yeah,
that, yeah, twice, twice.
As I see, like...
Everything we just in scope,
like for the roadmap, at least,
which was clear to us,
was edit flow and ended pretty much with
edit flow.
Everything after edit flow was unclear.
I mean, it wasn't clear what, basically.
We got information of what should be in
scope.
In beginning of March. Yeah, I mean.
And for edit flow refinement and
everything we did,
it took us more than a month to prepare
everything. No,
I'm not saying it's your photo or. No, no,
that's not what I'm saying.
It's just like we need time to refine,
especially with this.
This plan, and this is why.
We are trying to build the road we're
driving on. Exactly, because previously,
like at least when we were building the
transport order details,
we know that we'll be making a bigger
plan page,
like something like before this.
After that,
we knew that they would need to edit
those transport orders in order for the
app to properly function.
So now we finished data flow and we had
absolutely no idea what is coming next.
This is at least how I see it,
because previously we had at least an
idea what is coming next and would start
thinking about it,
start making some sort of discussions and
stuff, but like at this point we like...
OK, as mentioned,
until the start of March,
we did not have any with high priority
coming next, yes.
By the way, like, usually, like,
for some of the previous projects we
worked on, like,
can't we request from the client to get
the dedicated person responsible for kind
of preparing these feature documents and
requirements? Not, not, not talking.
Is there Patrick is the one?
But we never received like something in a
document like very well described and
everything. Or at least that's my feeling.
I feel that it's always some constant,
constant question and answer
communication that's not structured.
I mean, we need to request from this guy.
For every new feature,
it provides us the requirements,
like very like good requirements.
His baseline, not sketches,
and that's that's his responsibility,
and I think that I think they provide
something very vague,
and then we go into the loop of asking
questions, getting slow answers,
and although this is something that
happens, it should be it should be very...
I mean,
we are going back to this one more layer
in between what we had before. I mean,
before I was talking with Max directly
and asking him the questions,
and we got answers, even though...
It was tiring. We went forward. Basically,
this is my assumption.
And right now we have this middle layer
in between,
which is at least preparing something.
This is a way,
like big way forward in comparison to
Raul.
But...
this whole asking questions is still
added a new layer in this Patrick. So I,
you ask me the question,
I ask Patrick the question,
Patrick ask Max the question,
then Max does his thing, whatever.
And then he comes back,
provides answers to Patrick,
and Patrick provides answers to me,
and I provide answers to you.
And it's just this middle layer of
Patrick,
which is just passing through the items.
But there are topics on the board that
are kind of disconnected from Patrick,
right? Yes,
some they might depend on Joachim or
whatever, yeah.
But the business requirements are not a
problem. I mean,
the business requirements, for example.
Stay.
GNS.
Boss.
Yeah.
So this is a major, yeah.
Boss thing,
but here also we need to be just like,
I mean, we talked about it yesterday,
if they can't finalise the concept on
their side.
It will clearly delay the whole go live.
Yeah,
but we have to raise until what time we
know. Yeah. So like. And the question is,
so maybe my time is now to just write
down all the questions we have and say we
need answers to this, this, this,
and this.
Probably going to be having a loop with
you guys tomorrow.
I'm going to be here in the morning in
the office. By the way,
who's going to be here?
Yay! Are you gonna be here? Yeah,
if you're not, we can still communicate.
And we can still communicate via Teams,
but basically we can go through and just
write down questions we have and
something we are requesting.
And then we can put a time box in so we
don't basically have this back and forth.
And right now, just say,
please provide answers until the end of
next week.
Then we can continue.
Can we now identify the, like,
the major obstacles we have to achieve
this?
Yeah.
I mean,
the data input is something we need a lot
of answers towards.
The updates to the planning page would be
what is considered a change,
what is what is sufficient,
all of this then.
This is all fine, except for the...
And we use a page. Another proposal.
Do we want,
I don't know if it's a good idea,
just up for discussion.
Do we want to have a session with Patrick
Villa?
This is not something I can answer.
Ch.
What is your?
Impression of him? What is your?
Gut feeling telling you that this would
be beneficial or not?
Wait, I will be back.
Maybe also doesn't need to be the whole
team,
but like that we can like back and forth
address our question with him.
Well,
I'm not sure that he has all the answers.
I mean, this is all seems to me.
Maybe I'm wrong.
Yeah, if he's constantly asking Max then,
yeah, yeah, true,
we might just end up over with the
question, which I see actually happening.
If he can't answer, it will be just like,
"Oh, well..."
I mean,
we can like try to have some kind of
assumption of what questions he may
answer to us, but...
I mean, on the other hand,
we can also like flip it around and say,
okay, on one hand,
where can we start without Patrick's
input? I think the technical part,
resilience part,
that's on us to refine it and then we can
work on it, right?
I would say so, yeah. Then if we,
for example, talk about certain things,
I can't see the left part of it,
but doesn't really matter. But we say, OK.
For example,
there's this indicator that changes. Yes,
we have questions,
but is there something where we can
already start working on?
Are there parts that we can kind of
disconnect from the open questions that
we still have?
and break it down into, I don't know,
two out of four PBIs can be worked on
because we know we need to do it anyway
and there's no dependency on Patrick.
So that we kind of unblock ourselves by
thinking about, okay,
what can I do without him?
Or is it all like tying up to we need the
overall answer because otherwise we can't
really answer that question while we move
on.
Well...
Yeah,
there are definitely topics we can start
with. For example, the PDF topic in there,
like the customer communication,
no dependence there at all.
The UI improvements probably make like
the one who should approve them after we
discuss them,
but for sure we can start working there.
Like the adjustment of the backend use,
probably we need some input.
Order,
there were some questions I see below
internet sticky.
The resilience is a topic which we should
that we are already addressing,
but we should continue addressing for
sure,
because it's probably the effort we've
spent from our side to make sure we are
able to properly go live.
The updates is something which we have,
I think, something like 2 questions there,
just to give an idea what exactly we want
to track it should be.
It should be a relatively simple answer
he needs to give us.
I mean,
what is what they want to talk is change
and whether some filtering should be
applied. This is, this is...
This,
you should be able to answer relatively
quickly,
while for the we have like a lot of
questions there. Yeah,
I think the key thing would be,
I'm not sure if we have talked about this
while I was not here, but...
a meeting dedicated just for this,
summarising our questions and basically
gathering before, and then just saying,
hey, all right,
so what should happen in this case?
What should happen in this case?
And if he's not providing these answers,
He's basically bound to get the answers.
If he can directly answer some of them,
perfect,
but we should be prepared for this query
like this.
Q&A and.
whatever he's not answering,
he should be going with,
in a loop with Max to get the answers.
Yeah.
Are we confident enough after today to go
through each column and have a rough
estimation?
How we work on this,
especially the resilience and the data
input.
Well, not.
cannot be really, from my point of view,
please say otherwise,
but especially the first two columns can
at the point right now not be estimated.
Even the first three. The third one.
One, we can make some assumptions,
but the third one would be,
but it's just like a gut feeling, like,
yeah, we can, like,
June is kind of around the corner.
And it's not the problem about like
throwing more people into the project to
solve it.
It's more like just giving a realistic
answer right now already without having
everything refined in detail.
Is it actually achievable?
Is it feasible to go live in June or do
we say like whatever we need at least?
June for final testing, whatever,
but we develop until 1st of June.
Meaning I can have a quick,
quick confidence vote.
So basically thumbs up,
like this might be, and this is hell no,
or if it's achievable in June.
Or the whole, or the whole set. Okay.
Yeah, all the whole set. OK, something,
but it's actually, no, all right. If we,
maybe if you bring some new developers,
like more backend or more tester, or like,
I mean, for this question,
does it make sense to add more,
for example, backend? Doesn't this way,
really? This is about the baby and the...
It's just when you bring new developers
first, if they haven't done this project,
they will need time onboarding.
And second,
it's not about the first two features,
they're quite complex.
You cannot bring a junior, for example.
You need to bring someone experienced and.
The, the, like,
the issue here I see is that, for example,
it's not that we don't have enough, like,
available capacity issues that we have.
Gaps.
I don't,
we don't know exactly how patient,
we don't know where like this the exact
business process. I mean,
at least type of 100% of the exact
business purpose which they intentionally
want to implement.
Probably there might be some ways we make
this easier, we make some assumptions,
we make some rules to make our and their
life easier because the whole tissue will
flow. But like probably the.
Is this the question probably I have?
Is the teacher want something they can't
go live without us?
They want definitely just before they can
go live. So this is like priority.
This is the high priority.
Because without the two shipments,
it's at least how I see it's a different
story.
Without this, I personally think that,
at some point of June,
the other stuff may be achievable.
To be honest.
I have more troubles with the resilience,
maybe because I have no idea what's going
on with the resilience,
how difficult it is,
and I cannot really grasp it,
but since I had more time thinking about
the T shipment and what we need to deal
with between T&A.
I don't really have that many question
marks.
right now when it comes to this.
So for me,
the resilience is a bigger question mark
because right now we couldn't even say
this is what,
this is the approach we're going to be
tackling. And yeah, let's continue.
But, as I see,
the only part which is not clear.
I mean,
we have been like most of the stuff we
need to like for the CDC,
there are some additional topics we need
to take over,
like some part of the job is already
there,
like the transactional behaviour is
something we agreed,
what is like the minimal amount of effort
we would need to spend there,
so we have a Rafael here what needs to
happen there.
The one-hour lock is the question which
is open for them currently.
And I can see the last topic there at the
bottom, but they are screen,
and this is again on the right, I mean.
We should be connected back to the
database,
otherwise we can't guarantee the...
Reliability,
as far as the performance goes.
Okay.
We have done some performance tests with
the other implementation.
I think it was fast.
I don't recall exactly the numbers.
But yeah, I mean,
the last two topics depend on them,
and our effort depends on the answers
which we receive from them.
But as far as the series CL flow goes,
and the transaction over here, I mean,
good transaction over here,
and save for sure now,
once you know what you need to achieve.
Okay, but then alright,
if you're confident that this is
achievable, great.
All the AMT shipments.
Like I said, this handling...
What we need to automate.
is with the simplest use cases,
where it's 100% clear what needs to be
done.
Can we discuss some probably cutting the
scope for the disciplines?
What do you mean by cutting the scope?
I mean, yeah,
we we just I will probably need to think
about it,
but if we can reduce the scope of those
two shipments and not have the whole flow.
To be honest,
I think what we can reduce is really the
resiliency. I mean,
I think we need to list down all the use
cases where we have where we make these
atomic operations and just see how much
of a problem they are for the Boyan,
because after all,
this is not something that...
Be happening often actually should be
quite there.
Then, if this is, for example,
somehow not that big of a deal if this
happens, but if you can just,
I don't know, somehow made some very,
very simple.
Communication that something failed,
and this is enough.
We we can regret this for a lot because
we have just a few scenarios.
What we have creating a transport order
from a leg from a lot, then unassigning,
unassigning,
and then the division of the transport
order.
Take this side, so...
I.
I mean, what the signing of a like,
let's say we try to assign,
the assign succeeds,
but it doesn't succeed on our end.
If we try to reassign it,
actually the DMS will reject because we
will be trying to reassign the same leg
that we already did.
So this actually is not a problem.
It's kind of handled by the business
floor.
And we need to also just revisit the
other ones.
Might not be that necessarily responded.
And maybe we can just, I had focus on the.
Yeah, but, like,
we end up in a situation where the...
That we knew that they won't see the side
flag, they won't see the everything,
but I mean,
I really think that this is an issue.
Well, I'm not sure how big really, maybe,
maybe they have other whines and polls
where they will notice this. I mean,
it's not only new disput that they're
working with. Yeah,
but maybe at some point that they will
see that this shipment is not assigned.
Yeah,
but need to be showing wrong information.
Which is like something which at least we
should...
Be able to somehow address at some point.
Or, as I said,
maybe we do some very basic communication
about that, and something failed,
and that's all.
Again,
we just offload everything to support and
say, just also an option.
The better one.
Because if you think about it,
the easiest solution would be just to
look if something failed in this
situation and just ask somebody else to
cheque what happened and just probably
fix the records in our database.
It could be like, again,
how often this stuff will happen.
Exactly, it will go from that. Maybe,
maybe it doesn't happen in five months,
even once.
Seriously, this is an option. I mean,
if operation fails in here,
we know we have.
Is synchronized? It's an option, yeah.
We make a special locally about events
which fail to synchronise it,
then we ask support to go cheque and
resolve this.
Support in the end that we support this
will be us. It will,
because in order to resolve it in our
application,
it should be a technical deck, you know.
Run team. Yeah,
we have someone dedicated to this. I mean,
because,
because we know we need to have some
support, because, for example,
for the series, it might be you. Maybe,
maybe we don't know this. Let me,
let me just record.
Actually, in the end,
we will need this anyhow,
no matter the solution we choose.
We will need to put it up, yeah, yeah,
we will. Can we first, like,
find out who can give us this information,
how often it is?
I think we need.
Okay, we can go over the questions again,
which are basically the red stickies
later or...
I will go over them. But again,
my assumption for the TNA,
we are just tackling the easy topics.
What could mess us up is that TMS is
doing something we are not aware of,
but this is a big assumption we put in
our offer or whatever we are providing.
If TMS is doing something under the hood
which we are not aware of.
Whatever will happen,
we will not make the deadline.
This is all fine with me. But again,
we are just showing if there's a conflict,
we are showcasing it and basically having
the same approach. Please fix it.
And it's not us, it's them.
Yeah, but the whole flows,
like with the loops,
is is is like I see a lot of,
it's not it's not loops,
it's just how I managed to,
because it's a time,
it's a different workflow.
If you tell me how you want to tell me
how you want to see it,
basically the structure.
Then I can try to rearrange this
time-wise business flow.
Should be another diagram that starts
from the point of assignment.
Okay.
Because it's a that's the other work for
you: assign something, and then yeah, OK,
yeah, OK. It's not a continuity process.
Yeah, but also the part where you,
where you like out references like when
one of the entities assigned,
it's like quite strange to me.
At least I need to spend time just going
over it and just understanding.
Yeah,
I think it's yesterday I made everyone
nervous.
Today I think everyone is a little bit
more aware of what's going on.
especially with a perfect example
showcasing what is actually what's going
on. I think next week.
Of the week after,
it's even going to be sinking down a
little bit more, and...
Maybe we have another talk about it,
and it shouldn't be as bad as it looks
right now.
because it's just a new big topic,
or complex topic, not even big,
but complex.
Okay. One last question from last time,
we were talking about team setup.
I understand backend doesn't really make
sense. What about QA? Do we need more,
like, especially in the final phase,
do we need support?
I can't really say. I mean, for now,
I would say that I'm doing well.
Yeah, I don't know, actually, yeah,
you want to say something when or, yeah,
I'm not sure, yeah,
quite sure about the database, yeah,
and when we have to test the other things
that they would basically be like testing
the app as if it was.
Um, is it?
As a user, or so,
it's probably just a couple of days just
testing the app.
The problem I see with testing is that we
are pulling manual in all directions,
which is not ideal,
and also we don't have the proficiency to
be otherwise.
I think don't have the capacity also.
You know, yeah, uh, but with the capacity,
this is something we could...
Yeah, but...
It's really about even even in terms of
automation QAs.
Just in terms of availability on our side,
I think it is not easy.
My concern is that...
We have.
Very little documentation of the features
of this app, and if it's a new Q.A.
which never works on the on the app,
it would take some time to get into the
features. This is something like Adanas,
for example,
but he's on another project now.
All right, yeah.
What about Ian? He's he's for now,
he's on another project,
but I don't know about him after that.
Anyways,
this is my concern that if if we want to
keep on quickly.
Neither school nor will manage to kill me.
Yeah, I mean,
there's two sides of the coin.
First of all,
she's totally right about this. I mean,
whoever we bring,
regardless if he has experience over the
project,
it will require some time for him or her,
of course,
to understand the functionalities.
I mean,
it would take some of everybody's
capacity,
not only basic capacity to explain,
but just like what,
how the functionalities would work,
or probably point to the actual
specification when we need to follow,
because I don't also think that the best
approach is for somebody to describe how
this should work, it should be.
We are getting documented,
but like we have, I mean,
we have some documentation,
I don't agree that we don't have anything
documented,
at least from behaviour point of view,
from technical point of view,
probably like we may have some, like,
at least from implementation point of
view, some gaps, but like this is,
this is, yes, we know about this.
But, like, this is,
it would require some capacity.
All you think is that if we put this
developer here right now,
it would take a lot of time for him or
her to, like, to pick up the speed.
Like for the most of the features,
probably, I mean,
even if we bring the second one, like,
I don't think it will be enough tasks for
2K, like,
for the bigger part of the whole map we
have there.
Uhh.
The other part of the other side of the
coin is that, for example,
if you need to be upset for some time,
we are left with all the QA.
This is the downside of the whole thing.
So, this is like a risk,
as I see it as well, because, for example,
let's say you go on a leave or, like,
if some situation occurs,
you need to take something,
so we are left without agreeing,
which is not ideal.
Yeah, I mean, the only thing which,
as you just mentioned,
the only thing which would require a lot
of effort is the testing at the end.
What I could suggest is approach there is,
once you get this database like migrated
and they claim that they have done it,
we could also, like,
we could use some of the dev effort to.
Help with the testing.
Because, like,
the developers should be familiar, or,
of course, you guys,
if you have some capacity as well,
just going over the application and just
checking from user point of view if
everything is behaviour can be expected
to.
Because, like,
we introducing features and letting
people on board is like it would be like
a long process.
There will be constantly questions,
so we risk also missing some stuff which
they are not aware of,
or they haven't they are not familiar
with, so yeah.
I was meaning something completely
different that, like,
I don't think that it's correct to have
100% of the testing being manual.
I mean, for that application, it's fine.
I mean,
to have even like a considerable amount
of manual testing,
but you should have some automated test,
and we've been just like we've been over
this topic many, many times. Again,
we actually felt we did have nothing in
the project.
And this still let us know, to be honest.
I think that it's a responsibility both
on the developers and I'm not sure about
on the QA side who we should bring,
but at some point I think we need to
address this for sure.
Someone who's capable of writing this,
then just start writing.
So we have something and we don't go from
regression from scratch,
testing the whole application from
scratch manually.
Because we cannot repeat this in future
over and over. Right now.
Right now, from what I know, we have,
because we do have time of an automated
test,
and they haven't been updated to the
backend for like for a long time. Yeah,
the UI tests were last updated, I think.
December last year, something like that,
and I think these were the recent ones.
What were the, what were the,
the API tests? No, they were,
do you know about the API tests?
The APIs like that? Yeah,
I think it's one year. We can also try,
keep them up to date with the AI.
I mean,
I don't say AI is producing the results
we should.
Use unreviewed,
you need to review everything rooting for
anything K.I. I mean,
but it's the only way to go,
as long as you know what you're doing, K.
I. is the way to go, correct?
So,
any kind of test can be written by AI
playwright-based UI tests that can,
basically, you can start by coding.
Here's your copy and do this.
I can do that. Yeah,
it's not that it's like...
Five agents, whoa, where's my coffee?
We should talk about that, I think.
I think it should start from development.
Really, this at least start something,
start writing, for example,
some integration tests.
And actually,
this is something that we could be
bringing someone new,
starting writing integration tests.
I think this is a task that could be done
from someone like this, and yeah,
also it would be could be done in
parallel and not slow the process and
like build slowly building this
foundation between it.
Integration tests by AI,
or what do you mean?
We need to figure it out.
I think it would be not by AI in the
meaning in the beginning,
maybe some of the...
The developer will be writing using AI,
but not going to be completely AI already.
Yeah, AI is just a tool. Yes, and we,
the two colleagues from Turkey that are
working on Cloud for Log,
and I think that setup is not ideal.
Could they write those integration tests?
I, yeah, I would love to say yes,
to be honest, but no, no,
take them in your dispo, but for example,
like our idea, my idea was...
For for work for them was to help.
Exactly about this, over there,
we need to write component tests for
Cloud for Lock,
but I think this would be very,
very challenging for them,
because Cloud for Lock first,
I think it's quite complex in terms of
infrastructure. I mean,
new disc and cloud for lock are complex
in different ways,
like new disc with domain complex,
cloud for lock is technology
infrastructure.
complex and also it doesn't have a UI,
so it would be very hard for them to...
Been up with this,
but a new display will definitely be
easier, I think. Because then, like,
I don't know if it helps overall progress,
but it maybe helps you on the Cloud for
Log side to have less. It will.
Less stuff.
But let's, I mean,
we don't need to discuss it in the
background, but let's think about it,
how we can. By the way, we forgot,
just a reminder that we wanted to discuss
this and we didn't. Which one exactly?
The girls.
But, but, yeah, this is the name.
By the way, anyway, but yeah, I mean,
this could be done in parallel. I mean,
this is something we, it won't,
it won't actually remove the need for
manual testing,
but it's something which would definitely
be useful going down the way.
When,
before you said something in terms of if
you go on leave, for example.
So I know that you have like a vacation
overview, at least try to put it together,
who's taking time off.
We have Easter coming up,
we have some other public holidays.
I don't know how it is in Bulgaria for
you guys, at least in Germany. Yeah.
Yeah. So,
and that also plays into the capacity we
have until June or July or whatever.
So if that already exists and the
calendar is up to date, then Max,
we should also take that into account,
right?
When coming up with the overall plan.
Karaman, good for you.
Actually, Martin,
I was going to ask you only about June.
What about June?
Have we got any long term plans?
Just, just Joe.
I think no, or the contract is until, no,
no, no,
the contract is kind of until the end of
the year, or at least there's...
Your budget, if it exists here,
if it exists, but,
but the goal of the goal of June just was
pulled out two weeks ago for us,
like in the beginning of March, right?
This is why, like,
everyone is kind of focused now,
is June realistic or end of June or
whatsoever?
So that was the scope that was put
together on the business side for
whatever reason and why we were not made
aware earlier, I don't know.
But and I think it's a good approach to
have a go live that you are targeting and
then you work towards that.
you deliver a value to the users,
you get user feedback, right?
We are like just constantly working on it
and getting feedback from Max,
but not from all the dispatchers that are
working with the application in the
future. And then of course,
we will come into an operations mode
where we have like the run team that we
already talked about that will actually
secure the operation on the tool like.
find the bug fixes and whatever.
And then we have constantly adding new
features and stuff and the roadmap is
full.
They have so many ideas they want to do,
but this is kind of,
we need to get this first hole of getting
live and then we will continue for sure.
So, what is like,
what's preventing us from going live is
actually two things like we don't have an
environment which we are sure that they
will be working with like a database
branch.
We don't even know the branch which we
like using for it to go live.
This is the first thing we need.
Put a timeline on it. Yeah,
basically on a timeline deadline. Yeah,
we need the database,
we need to migrate the fully functioning
database,
Oracle if it's Oracle or Postgre,
but we need to be sure it's the latest
version which we have like in scripts in
the in the database,
so this is something we need.
This is the first thing which is
preventing us from going live.
Second thing is like the resilient topics
that you need to handle.
And the third one probably is the,
I would say, the that was the the CGC,
I need this.
So, so resilience, and what else? Uh, CDC,
we'll just put CDC for Oracle.
Spoke.
So, yeah, I mean,
what I what if you want to target go live
in June is just focus on the topics which
is preventing us from going live.
If we have this out of the way,
we can go live, even without the,
for example,
and we can discuss with them whether it
makes sense to access it later,
but because if you have an application
which is behaving properly and it's
working, like, how the let me explain.
why T is not optional.
More than 50% of what they're working
with is T shipments.
And A is just...
Even more than 50%,
it's like a high percentage number of
what they're working with,
and they need this information early and
they cannot really use an app,
which basically have like a question: why
did we never?
integrate or work with T-shipments.
What if they are 15% off? We don't know.
We didn't know that it was a different
type of T-shipments. Long story short,
it was not in the database.
It was in the first.
The view we got,
there was a philtre on a shipments,
we never questioned it.
And.
Then, at some point,
Max raised the topic again: where are the
T, so where are these shipments? Yeah,
but also they only started getting them
into TMS. Yeah,
this was also that conflict in my head.
How can they say that's the driver in our
daily business,
and then they only have it in the
database for the last three months?
It doesn't make sense.
And they are not able to properly plan
with it right now. If this is correct,
then they don't have this functionality
already working. They can plan with it,
but they have no...
Like I said, assumption,
no handling of where the information goes.
They reference it and they somehow
resolve this at some point.
OK, but anyway, like we will resolve it,
we will bring it down into parts,
maybe we can cut corners some at some
point, I don't know.
making the T-shift,
but you said we are only handling the
easy cases and all the others will end up
in the conflict,
whatever that in the end means and how
it's handled on the application side.
But yeah, I mean, from the easy cases,
there are edge cases diverting.
Obviously,
this always just like if this is
happening, alright,
but what if then something is...
Yeah, unassigned. Is it visible or not?
Can we list like all the cases? Like,
yeah,
this is one of the questions we have.
Like,
we want to know what are the H cases that
we have,
and basically it is for me and Patrick.
Yeah, basically a task.
Two.
Ask him the questions to give me the
answers.
I mean,
this whole workshop is probably just like
a lot of giving me a lot of work.
What is then the plan, like to wrap it up?
What is the plan for next week?
That was also my question.
The promise of delivering.
The promise of delivering a timeline.
How can it be fulfilled when you go?
Well, this time, I mean,
I tomorrow or milestone?
Is it are you three days at the trade
fair next week? Yeah.
I mean, I might be reducing it.
To half an hour.
I mean, I won't be,
I probably can have my refinements with
Pascal. I mean,
it's a one hour refinement today and just
like not being at the fair for now is
probably going to be all right.
But I think the biggest thing is time
writing down the questions.
It's something I can do tomorrow and
something I can do on Monday, because...
It's a lot of thinking what could happen
and I have this scenario,
I have this scenario basically.
It's writing down scenarios and what
should happen.
and then asking, how do we resolve this?
This is probably the biggest issue we
have right now is that there's a lot of
uncertainty what could all happen. I mean,
my not biggest wish,
but dream scenario would be we have a
whole day tomorrow to just
So, or, or like an hour tomorrow,
we could be here and writing down
scenarios and say, alright.
Anyone has another scenario?
What could happen here?
Just rewrite it down and have it and then
it just this vague, oh,
we have this all not really figured out,
disappears into we've written it down.
I mean,
can you guys do a team session tomorrow
morning? Yeah.
You're not coming to the office, then,
at least, yeah, of course, yeah.
This will be off tomorrow, I think. Yes,
good for you, blah, blah, blah, yeah,
yeah, yeah,
but I think we can still do that session,
yeah, but what's the time I'm flying,
afternoon or around lunchtime?
So, so we can do it in the morning, yes,
8:30, right? Yeah, I was here at 8, yeah,
yeah, yeah, I will leave you.
It depends on how people feel after
tonight. Yeah, that's another point.
Next question. Next week,
you are as a trade bureau.
Refinement sessions will be focusing on
resilience. Therefore,
you don't need to get in on anything.
You are there.
That's the priority for at least Tuesday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
whenever the refunds are.
And on the on parallel,
my objective is to get answers.
for the scenarios.
And if we get answers to the scenarios,
I think.
the more which is clear what should be
done and basically how this flow should
look like,
which is basically another task.
the easier it is for us to put a number
on it. Just say, all right,
if this happens, this happens. OK.
then this should work.
And...
What is a change? This is definition.
And if we are not happy with this
definition, I can argue.
And this is just information basically
providing to you, basically, right?
Make your heads,
maybe you can organise a session with the
team,
basically just go over what I'm providing
you next week and discuss.
If this is making any trouble,
and if this, what is your counter offer,
basically? OK, yeah, I mean,
what we could easily start working with
just with few answers,
which should be straightforward,
like this update of the bank page.
This should be something we can directly
click off with.
Also,
probably like some stuff around
calculations, I see some questions there,
but I think we should be able to, like...
The feedback, for example,
is something we can start with. I mean,
we can make a proposal,
we cannot even discuss it with Martin on
Monday when we sit down,
and we can probably see what would make
sense there,
but I need to make Matt probably start
implementing it as well.
Can we see Gharaee, we ask where,
where in the calculation column?
So, for this thing,
if we know whether we should go with a
bit of fixed time or with validation,
we could also start working for it.
For those mismatches,
I'm not sure how exactly we should be
showcasing those.
So, we can't start on it.
Just start with adding an exclamation
mark.
Next to it in the market in red.
I mean,
we can discuss what we can start from
there,
but we can probably create some PBIs and
find them and just cheque where it's
sufficient. First,
we can start with creating, say.
Ohh, yeah, but like for the updates,
I think we can directly probably get off
if it was to get, yeah,
so what exactly is counted as an update,
yeah?
Also, for the like you guys,
the PDF is also something we can directly
start investigating,
and I think we still have some refined
items in the backlog as well.
Couple of them, yeah, not many,
but I think we still have some.
Yeah, as well, yeah.
Is able to point communicate it,
provide some, yeah.
But like what would be good is probably
just to create items,
just go over them and probably start
working over them.
Yeah.
Thank you, yep.
The, the whole, like...
TDC for Oracle topic is like most of it,
I think it's like...
If I'm not wrong, yeah,
so Nikolay will go there more.
Because, like,
we're also dependent on them there,
so I don't think that there is something
explicit from our side that we can start.
Tomorrow,
you can be either Martin will set up a
meeting when it comes to the UI
improvements. Okay, yeah, that's fine.
Probably for YouTube and...
I see. Sure.
Basically, that you also the page,
but it's not really UX, it's more UI,
just...
And as well, the adjustment to the views,
right?
How we can philtre stuff,
or investigation at least, to, yeah,
how we can make basically the same we
have on the client communication on the
customer communication page. How is this?
You can hear me, yeah, OK.
I think there's plenty of stuff to start
with. I will, as much as possible,
try to provide input as soon as I get it.
And yeah.
Tomorrow,
hopefully we can send out an e-mail
saying, hey,
provide please the edge case scenarios
and what should happen here,
what should happen here.
Yep, and after next week,
so looking even further into the future.
We should have, in theory,
better knowledge of what's coming up, and.
..
Have an estimation.
Yeah, I like it,
please the rough estimation.
On how many story points? Thirty-five,
thirty-five,
always depends on the answers, right?
Yeah, of course, as always,
but we want to be off that week, yeah.
And evil, if I remember correctly, yeah.
Bobby, yep, from 13th to the second.
Yeah, great,
then we just do it without you,
so we will support you.
Next week,
but then we're probably finding, and also.
Invo Flashroft.
Easter. Did you put your? No,
I'm not from the 15th, 15th, 20th. OK.
And then enjoying, and what about this?
So, basically, you have...
the Friday and the Monday off and then
you come to office and then...
Are you sure? How does this make sense?
I'm like a break of vacation.
Yeah, we didn't talk of it.
All right, I mean,
so basically the whole week after Easter,
kind of nothing really will happen, yeah,
but this is good.
because this is something we will be
communicating. I mean,
if you guys know the answers like for...
For the questions that you had that we
had for, like,
at least for the key shipments and
everything,
because here the topic which is like most
uncertain now, at least for me,
is like the key shipments thing,
like you even in this week where I hope
you can do the estimates. I mean,
those are rough.
Estimate, we should be able to do this,
provided we can right, and as I see,
as currently stands,
I'm the only one who is also,
you should be perfectly fine making those
estimates from an error.
I, you also should be here,
Coco will be here, please,
Tony and you will basically everybody in
here, so I can also roll the dice,
no problem, yeah,
so you should be one story point.
OK, go to the next one,
put 8 on everything, and I mean, yes,
suggestion is we normally do probably
just giving the three estimates,
the optimistic, the realistic,
and the pessimistic one,
because that way we could manage
expectation,
because normally when we do this.
Like, at least from previous experience,
like the real estimate is like the the
realistic estimate plus 10 to 20% above,
like something like this is the realistic,
which is actually turn account to be so.
Yeah.
Okay, then we have an idea for next week.
Yeah, can we go to next month?
I see in Coco. Coco is in the USA.
Sweet for a week at least.
Did you all put in your vacations for May?
Yes. Yeah. At least the plant ones. Okay,
yeah, good. Yeah. I can add myself here,
by the way. Yeah. What about June?
You're not part of the team, that's why.
We don't want you here. You're welcome.
June looks too pretty; that can't be true.
You're all ready for Goli?
Everything is planned for August and July.
All your old vacation from the previous
year until the end of the job. Yes,
just the same.
And you can transfer just up to 10 days,
but you can spend all of them until.
OK, any more questions regarding?
Martin. Martin. Martin. Martin. Martin.
Any more questions regarding these topics
or how we're going to proceed next week?
Like I said,
I'm not going to be gone for next week.
I'm still going to be accessible.
If you have questions, just ping me.
I can probably squeeze in a new call and
we'll come to the trade fair. Yeah,
we're sure that they understood, guys.
It's probably gonna go be more fun this
way, anyhow.
Um...
Tea shipment, yeah, one more thing,
delivering, yeah,
this is something we have to do to find
risk potential block assumption.
Yeah.
Yeah, the rest not. Yeah, for the set up,
your thing discussed is like potentially
if you could add someone to write the
integration tests,
and that will that will help us like for
future tests. They like them, they like,
okay, but like this,
this should be clear from...
It should be clear from client point of
view that they won't see media like
increased productivity or more features
being done. No, no, this is fine. We, we,
I mean, okay, just for you to know,
we are, we don't have like a, yeah, it's..
.
Project management-wise,
they just switched a lot of stuff,
and now we can just have more fun. Anyhow,
you're laughing in for the no, all right,
sure you're on the spot. No,
I was about to say.